_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             20.07.2005

Mr. McCain (for himself and Mr. Dorgan) introduced the following bill; 
  which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Indian Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for Indian trust asset management reform and resolution of 
         historical accounting claims, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Indian Trust 
Reform Act of 2005''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
                TITLE I--SETTLEMENT OF LITIGATION CLAIMS

Sec. 101. Findings.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
Sec. 103. Individual Indian Accounting Claim Settlement Fund.
Sec. 104. General distribution.
Sec. 105. Claims relating to share determination.
Sec. 106. Claims relating to method of valuation.
Sec. 107. Claims relating to constitutionality.
Sec. 108. Attorneys' fees.
Sec. 109. Waiver and release of claims.
Sec. 110. Effect of title.
    TITLE II--INDIAN TRUST ASSET MANAGEMENT POLICY REVIEW COMMISSION

Sec. 201. Establishment.
Sec. 202. Membership.
Sec. 203. Meetings and procedures.
Sec. 204. Duties.
Sec. 205. Powers.
Sec. 206. Commission personnel matters.
Sec. 207. Exemption from FACA.
Sec. 208. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 209. Termination of Commission.
   TITLE III--INDIAN TRUST ASSET MANAGEMENT DEMONSTRATION PROJECT ACT

Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. Definitions.
Sec. 303. Establishment of demonstration project; selection of 
                            participating Indian tribes.
Sec. 304. Indian trust asset management plan.
Sec. 305. Effect of title.
    TITLE IV--FRACTIONAL INTEREST PURCHASE AND CONSOLIDATION PROGRAM

Sec. 401. Fractional interest program.
 TITLE V--RESTRUCTURING BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS AND OFFICE OF SPECIAL 
                                TRUSTEE

Sec. 501. Purpose.
Sec. 502. Definitions.
Sec. 503. Under Secretary for Indian Affairs.
Sec. 504. Transfer of functions of Assistant Secretary for Indian 
                            Affairs.
Sec. 505. Office of Special Trustee for American Indians.
Sec. 506. Hiring preference.
Sec. 507. Authorization of appropriations.
                 TITLE VI--AUDIT OF INDIAN TRUST FUNDS

Sec. 601. Audits and reports.
Sec. 602. Authorization of appropriations.

                TITLE I--SETTLEMENT OF LITIGATION CLAIMS

SEC. 101. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) Congress has appropriated tens of millions of dollars 
        for purposes of providing an historical accounting of funds 
        held in Individual Indian Money accounts;
            (2) as of the date of enactment of this Act, the efforts of 
        the Federal Government in conducting historical accounting 
        activities have provided information regarding the feasibility 
        and cost of providing a complete historical accounting of IIM 
        account funds;
            (3) in the case of many IIM accounts, a complete historical 
        accounting--
                    (A) may be impossible because necessary records and 
                accounting data are missing or destroyed;
                    (B) may take several years to perform even if 
                necessary records are available;
                    (C) may cost the United States hundreds of millions 
                and possibly several billion dollars; and
                    (D) may be impossible to complete before the deaths 
                of many elderly IIM account beneficiaries;
            (4) without a complete historical accounting, it may be 
        difficult or impossible to ascertain the extent of losses in an 
        IIM account as a result of accounting errors or mismanagement 
        of funds, or the correct amount of interest accrued or owned on 
        the IIM account;
            (5) the total cost to the United States of providing a 
        complete historical accounting of an IIM account may exceed--
                    (A) the current balance of the IIM account;
                    (B) the total sums of money that have passed 
                through the IIM account; and
                    (C) the enforceable liability of the United States 
                for losses from, and interest in, the IIM account;
            (6)(A) the delays in obtaining an accounting and in 
        pursuing accounting claims in the case styled Cobell v. Norton, 
        Civil Action No. 96-1285 (RCL) in the United States District 
        Court for the District of Columbia, have created a great 
        hardship on IIM account beneficiaries; and
            (B) many beneficiaries and their representatives have 
        indicated that they would rather receive monetary compensation 
        than experience the continued frustration and delay associated 
        with an accounting of transactions and funds in their IIM 
        accounts;
            (7) it is appropriate for Congress, taking into 
        consideration the findings under paragraphs (1) through (6), to 
        provide benefits that are reasonably calculated to be fair and 
        appropriate in lieu of performing an accounting of an IIM 
        account, or assuming liability for errors in such an 
        accounting, mismanagement of IIM account funds (including 
        undetermined amounts of interest in IIM accounts, losses in 
        which may never be discovered or quantified if a complete 
        historical accounting cannot be performed), or breach of 
        fiduciary duties with respect to the administration of IIM 
        accounts, in order to transmute claims by the beneficiaries of 
        IIM accounts for undetermined or unquantified accounting losses 
        and interest to a fixed amount to be distributed to the 
        beneficiaries of IIM accounts;
            (8) in determining the amount of the payments to be 
        distributed as described in paragraph (7), Congress should take 
        into consideration, in addition to the factors described in 
        paragraphs (1) through (6)--
                    (A) the risks and costs to IIM account 
                beneficiaries, as well as any delay, associated with 
                the litigation of claims that will be resolved by this 
                title; and
                    (B) the benefits to IIM account beneficiaries 
                available under this title;
            (9) the situation of the Osage Nation is unique because, 
        among other things, income from the mineral estate of the Osage 
        Nation is distributed to individuals through headright 
        interests that belong not only to members of the Osage Nation, 
        but also to members of other Indian tribes, and to non-Indians; 
        and
            (10) due to the unique situation of the Osage Nation, the 
        Osage Nation, on its own behalf, has filed various actions in 
        Federal district court and the United States Court of Federal 
        Claims seeking accountings, money damages, and other legal and 
        equitable relief

SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Accounting claim.--The term ``accounting claim'' means 
        any claim for an historical accounting of a claimant against 
        the United States under the Litigation.
            (2) Claimant.--The term ``claimant'' means any beneficiary 
        of an IIM account (including an heir of such a beneficiary) 
        that was living on the date of enactment of the American Indian 
        Trust Fund Management Reform Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 4001 et 
        seq.).
            (3) IIM account.--The term ``IIM account'' means an 
        Individual Indian Money account administered by the Bureau of 
        Indian Affairs.
            (4) Litigation.--The term ``Litigation'' means the case 
        styled Cobell v. Norton, Civil Action No. 96-1285 (RCL) in the 
        United States District Court for the District of Columbia.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Treasury.
            (6) Settlement fund.--The term ``Settlement Fund'' means 
        the fund established by section 103(a).
            (7) Special master.--The term ``Special Master'' means the 
        special master appointed by the Secretary under section 103(b) 
        to administer the Settlement Fund.

SEC. 103. INDIVIDUAL INDIAN ACCOUNTING CLAIM SETTLEMENT FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established in the general fund 
        of the Treasury a fund, to be known as the ``Individual Indian 
        Accounting Claim Settlement Fund''.
            (2) Initial deposit.--The Secretary shall deposit into the 
        Settlement Fund to carry out this title not less than 
        $[__],000,000,000 from funds appropriated under section 1304 of 
        title 31, United States Code.
    (b) Special Master.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall appoint a Special Master to 
administer the Settlement Fund in accordance with this title.
    (c) Distribution.--
            (1) In general.--The Special Master shall use not less than 
        80 percent of amounts in the Settlement Fund to make payments 
        to claimants in accordance with section 104.
            (2) Method of valuation and constitutional claims.--The 
        Special Master may use not to exceed 12 percent of amounts in 
        the Settlement Fund to make payments to claimants described 
        in--
                    (A) section 106; or
                    (B) section 107.
            (3) Attorneys' fees.--The Special Master may use not to 
        exceed [__] percent of amounts in the Settlement Fund to make 
        payments to claimants for attorneys' fees in accordance with 
        section 108.
    (d) Costs of Administration.--The Secretary may use not more than 
[__] percent of amounts in the Settlement Fund to pay the costs of--
            (1) administering the Settlement Fund; and
            (2) otherwise carrying out this title.

SEC. 104. GENERAL DISTRIBUTION.

    (a) Payments to Claimants.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date on 
        which the Secretary publishes in the Federal Register the 
        regulations described in subsection (d), the Special Master 
        shall distribute to each claimant from the Settlement Fund an 
        amount equal to the sum of--
                    (A) the per capita share of the claimant of 
                $[__],000,000,000 of the amounts described in section 
                103(c)(1); and
                    (B) of $[__],000,000,000 of the amounts described 
                in section 103(c)(1), the additional share of the 
                claimant, to be determined in accordance with a formula 
                established by the Secretary under subsection (d)(1).
            (2) Heirs of claimants.--
                    (A) In general.--An heir of a claimant shall 
                receive the entire amount distributed to the claimant 
                under paragraphs (1) and (3).
                    (B) Multiple heirs.--If a claimant has more than 1 
                heir, the amount distributed to the claimant under 
                paragraphs (1) and (3) shall be divided equally among 
                the heirs of the claimant.
            (3) Residual amounts.--After making each distribution 
        required under sections 106, 107, and 108, the Special Master 
        shall distribute to claimants the remainder of the amounts 
        described in paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 103(c), in 
        accordance with paragraph (1)(B).
    (b) Requirement for Distribution.--The Special Master shall not 
make a distribution to a claimant under subsection (a) until the 
claimant executes a waiver and release of accounting claims against the 
United States in accordance with section 109.
    (c) Location of Claimants.--
            (1) Responsibility of secretary of the interior.--The 
        Secretary of the Interior shall provide to the Special Master 
        any information, including IIM account information, that the 
        Special Master determines to be necessary to--
                    (A) identify any claimant under this title; or
                    (B) apply a formula established by the Secretary 
                under subsection (d).
            (2) Claimants of unknown location.--
                    (A) In general.--The Special Master shall deposit 
                in an account, for future distribution, amounts under 
                this title for each claimant who--
                            (i) is entitled to receive a distribution 
                        under this title, as determined by the Special 
                        Master; and
                            (ii) has not been located by the Special 
                        Master as of the date on which a distribution 
                        is required under subsection (a)(1).
                    (B) Location of claimants.--
                            (i) Responsibility of secretary of the 
                        interior.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
                        provide to the Special Master any information 
                        and assistance necessary to locate a claimant 
                        described in subparagraph (A)(ii).
                            (ii) Contracts.--The Special Master may 
                        enter into contracts with an Indian tribe or an 
                        organization representing individual Indians in 
                        order to locate a claimant described in 
                        subparagraph (A)(ii).
    (d) Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall promulgate any 
        regulations that the Secretary determines to be necessary to 
        carry out this title, including regulations establishing a 
        formula to determine the share of each claimant of payments 
        under subsection (a)(1).
            (2) Factors for consideration.--In developing the formula 
        described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall take into 
        consideration the amount of funds that have passed through the 
        IIM account of each claimant during the period beginning on 
        1980.01.01, and ending on Dec 31, 2005, or another 
        period, as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.

SEC. 105. CLAIMS RELATING TO SHARE DETERMINATION.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), any claimant may seek 
judicial review of the determination of the Special Master with respect 
to the amount of a share payment of a claimant under section 104(a)(1).
    (b) Requirements.--A claimant shall file a claim under subsection 
(a)--
            (1) not later than 180 days after the date of receipt of a 
        notice by the claimant under subsection (c); and
            (2) in the United States district court for the district in 
        which the claimant resides.
    (c) Notice.--The Secretary shall provide to each claimant a notice 
of the right of any claimant to seek judicial review of a determination 
of the Special Master with respect to the amount of the share payment 
of the claimant under section 105.
    (d) Subsequent Appeals.--A claim relating to a determination of a 
United States district court relating to an appeal under subsection (a) 
shall be filed only in the United States Court of Appeals for the 
District of Columbia.

SEC. 106. CLAIMS RELATING TO METHOD OF VALUATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, a claimant may seek judicial review of the method of 
distribution of a payment to the claimant under section 104(a).
    (b) Requirements.--A claim under subsection (a)--
            (1) shall not be filed as part of a class action claim 
        against any party; and
            (2) shall be filed only in the United States Court of 
        Federal Claims.
    (c) Available Amounts.--
            (1) In general.--The Special Master shall use only amounts 
        described in section 103(c)(2)(A) to satisfy an award under a 
        claim under this section.
            (2) Payments to claimants.--A claimant that files a claim 
        under this subsection shall not be eligible to receive a 
        distribution under section 104(a).
    (d) Effect of Claim.--The filing of a claim under this section 
shall be considered to be a waiver by the claimant of any right to an 
award under section 104.

SEC. 107. CLAIMS RELATING TO CONSTITUTIONALITY.

    (a) In General.--Any claimant may seek judicial review in the 
United States District Court for the District of Columbia of the 
constitutionality of the application of this title to an individual 
claimant.
    (b) Procedure.--
            (1) Judicial panel.--A claim under this section shall be 
        determined by a panel of 3 judges, to be appointed by the chief 
        judge of the United States District Court for the District of 
        Columbia.
            (2) Consolidation of claims.--
                    (A) In general.--The judicial panel may consolidate 
                claims under this section, as the judicial panel 
                determines to be appropriate.
                    (B) Prohibition of class action cases.--A claim 
                under this section shall not be filed as part of a 
                class action claim against any party.
            (3) Determination.--The judicial panel may award a claimant 
        such relief as the judicial panel determines to be appropriate, 
        including monetary compensation.
    (c) Available Amounts.--
            (1) In general.--The Special Master shall use only amounts 
        described in section 103(c)(2)(B) to satisfy an award under a 
        claim under this section.
            (2) Payments to claimants.--A claimant that files a claim 
        under this subsection shall not be eligible to receive a 
        distribution under section 104(a).
    (d) Effect of Claim.--The filing of a claim under this section 
shall be considered to be a waiver by the claimant of any right to an 
award under section 104.

SEC. 108. ATTORNEYS' FEES.

    (a) In General.--The Special Master may use amounts described in 
section 103(c)(3) to make payments to claimants for costs and 
attorneys' fees incurred under the Litigation before the date of 
enactment of this Act, or in connection with a claim under section 104, 
at a rate not to exceed $[__] per hour.
    (b) Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The Special Master may make a payment 
        under subsection (a) only if, as of the date on which the 
        Special Master makes the payment, the applicable costs and 
        attorneys' fees have not been paid by the United States 
        pursuant to a court order.
            (2) Action by attorneys.--To receive a payment under 
        subsection (a), an attorney of the claimant shall submit to the 
        Special Master a written claim for costs or fees under the 
        Litigation.

SEC. 109. WAIVER AND RELEASE OF CLAIMS.

    (a) In General.--In order to receive an award under this title, a 
claimant shall execute and submit to the Special Master a waiver and 
release of claims under this section.
    (b) Contents.--A waiver and release under subsection (a) shall 
contain a statement that the claimant waives and releases the United 
States (including any officer, official, employee, or contractor of the 
United States) from any legal or equitable claim under Federal, State, 
or other law (including common law) relating to any accounting of funds 
in the IIM account of the claimant on or before the date of enactment 
of this Act.

SEC. 110. EFFECT OF TITLE.

    (a) Substitution of Benefits.--
            (1) In general.--The benefits provided under this title 
        shall be considered to be provided in lieu of any claims under 
        Federal, State, or other law originating before the date of 
        enactment of this Act for--
                    (A) losses as a result of accounting errors 
                relating to funds in an IIM account;
                    (B) mismanagement of funds in an IIM account; or
                    (C) interest accrued or owed in connection with 
                funds in an IIM account.
            (2) Limitation of claims.--Except as provided in this 
        title, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, a 
        claimant shall not maintain an action in any Federal, State, or 
        other court for an accounting claim originating before the date 
        of enactment of this Act.
            (3) Jurisdiction of courts.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in 
                this title, no court shall have jurisdiction over a 
                claim filed by an individual or group for the 
                historical accounting of funds in an IIM account on or 
                before the date of enactment of this Act, including any 
                such claim that is pending on the date of enactment of 
                this Act.
                    (B) Limitation.--This paragraph does not prevent a 
                court from ordering an accounting in connection with an 
                action relating to the mismanagement of trust resources 
                that are not funds in an IIM account on or before the 
                date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Acceptance as Waiver.--The acceptance by a claimant of a 
benefit under this title shall be considered to be a waiver by the 
claimant of any accounting claim that the claimant has or may have 
relating to the IIM account of the claimant.
    (c) Receipt of Payments Have No Impact on Benefits Under Other 
Federal Programs.--The receipt of a payment by a claimant under this 
title shall not be--
            (1) subject to Federal or State income tax; or
            (2) treated as benefits or otherwise taken into account in 
        determining the eligibility of the claimant for, or the amount 
        of benefits under, any other Federal program, including the 
        social security program, the medicare program, the medicaid 
        program, the State children's health insurance program, the 
        food stamp program, or the Temporary Assistance for Needy 
        Families program.
    (d) Certain Claims.--Nothing in this title precludes any court from 
granting any legal or equitable relief in an action by an Indian tribe 
or Indian nation against the United States, or an officer of the United 
States, filed or pending on or before the date of enactment of this 
Act, seeking an accounting, money damages, or any other relief relating 
to a tribal trust account or trust asset or resource.

    TITLE II--INDIAN TRUST ASSET MANAGEMENT POLICY REVIEW COMMISSION

SEC. 201. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is established a commission, to be known as the ``Indian 
Trust Asset Management Policy Review Commission,'' (referred to in this 
title as the ``Commission''), for the purposes of--
            (1) reviewing trust asset management laws (including 
        regulations) in existence on the date of enactment of this Act 
        governing the management and administration of individual 
        Indian and Indian tribal trust assets;
            (2) reviewing the management and administration practices 
        of the Department of the Interior with respect to individual 
        Indian and Indian tribal trust assets; and
            (3) making recommendations to the Secretary of the Interior 
        and Congress for improving those laws and practices.

SEC. 202. MEMBERSHIP.

    (a) In General.--The Commission shall be composed of 12 members, of 
whom--
            (1) 4 shall be appointed by the President;
            (2) 2 shall be appointed by the Majority Leader of the 
        Senate;
            (3) 2 shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of the 
        Senate;
            (4) 2 shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (5) 2 shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of the 
        House of Representatives.
    (b) Qualifications.--The membership of the Commission shall 
include--
            (1) at least 6 members who are representatives of federally 
        recognized Indian tribes with reservation land or other trust 
        land that is managed for--
                    (A) grazing;
                    (B) fishing; or
                    (C) crop, timber, mineral, or other resource 
                production purposes;
            (2) at least 1 member (including any member described in 
        paragraph (1)) who is or has been the beneficial owner of an 
        individual Indian monies account; and
            (3) at least 4 members who have experience in--
                    (A) Indian trust resource (excluding a financial 
                resource) management;
                    (B) fiduciary investment management;
                    (C) financial asset management; and
                    (D) Federal law and policy relating to Indians.
    (c) Date of Appointments.--
            (1) In general.--The appointment of a member of the 
        Commission shall be made not later than 90 days after the date 
        of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Failures to appoint.--A failure to make an appointment 
        in accordance with paragraph (1) shall not affect the powers or 
        duties of the Commission if sufficient members are appointed to 
        establish a quorum.
    (d) Term; Vacancies.--
            (1) Term.--A member shall be appointed for the life of the 
        Commission.
            (2) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Commission--
                    (A) shall not affect the powers or duties of the 
                Commission; and
                    (B) shall be filled in the same manner as the 
                original appointment was made.

SEC. 203. MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES.

    (a) Initial Meeting.--Not later than 150 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Commission shall hold the initial meeting of 
the Commission to--
            (1) elect a Chairperson; and
            (2) establish procedures for the conduct of business of the 
        Commission, including public hearings.
    (b) Subsequent Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of 
the Chairperson.
    (c) Quorum.--7 members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum, 
but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.
    (d) Chairperson.--The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from 
among the members of the Commission.

SEC. 204. DUTIES.

    (a) Reviews and Assessments.--The Commission shall review and 
assess--
            (1) Federal laws (including regulations) applicable or 
        relating to the management and administration of Indian trust 
        assets; and
            (2) the practices of the Department of the Interior 
        relating to the management and administration of Indian trust 
        assets.
    (b) Consultation.--In conducting the reviews and assessments under 
subsection (a), the Commission shall consult with--
            (1) the Secretary of the Interior;
            (2) federally recognized Indian tribes; and
            (3) organizations that represent the interests of 
        individual owners of Indian trust assets.
    (c) Recommendations.--After conducting the reviews and assessments 
under subsection (a), the Commission shall develop recommendations with 
respect to--
            (1) changes to Federal law that would improve the 
        management and administration of Indian trust assets by the 
        Secretary of the Interior;
            (2) changes to Indian trust asset management and 
        administration practices that would--
                    (A) better protect and conserve Indian trust 
                assets;
                    (B) improve the return on those assets to 
                individual Indian and Indian tribal beneficiaries; or
                    (C) improve the level of security of individual 
                Indian and Indian tribal money account data and assets; 
                and
            (3) proposed Indian trust asset management standards that 
        are consistent with any Federal law that is otherwise 
        applicable to the management and administration of the assets.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date on which the 
Commission holds the initial meeting, the Commission shall submit to 
the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on 
Resources of the House of Representatives, and the Secretary of the 
Interior a report that includes--
            (1) an overview and the results of the reviews and 
        assessments under subsection (a); and
            (2) any recommendations of the Commission under subsection 
        (c).

SEC. 205. POWERS.

    (a) Hearings.--The Commission may hold such hearings, meet and act 
at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such 
evidence as the Chairperson determines to be appropriate to carry out 
this title.
    (b) Information From Federal Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission may secure directly from a 
        Federal agency such information as the Chairperson determines 
        to be necessary to carry out this title.
            (2) Provision of information.--On request of the 
        Chairperson, the head of a Federal agency shall provide 
        information to the Commission.
    (c) Access to Personnel.--For purposes of carrying out this title, 
the Commission shall have reasonable access to staff responsible for 
Indian trust asset management and administration of--
            (1) the Department of the Interior;
            (2) the Department of the Treasury; and
            (3) the Department of Justice.
    (d) Postal Services.--The Commission may use the United States mail 
in the same manner and under the same conditions as other Federal 
agencies.
    (e) Gifts.--The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of gifts or 
donations of services or property to the same extent and under the same 
conditions as other Federal agencies.

SEC. 206. COMMISSION PERSONNEL MATTERS.

    (a) Compensation of Members.--
            (1) Non-federal employees.--A member of the Commission who 
        is not an officer or employee of the Federal Government shall 
        be compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the 
        annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the 
        Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States 
        Code, for each day (including travel time) during which the 
        member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the 
        Commission.
            (2) Federal employees.--A member of the Commission who is 
        an officer or employee of the Federal Government shall serve 
        without compensation in addition to the compensation received 
        for the services of the member as an officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government.
    (b) Travel Expenses.--A member of the Commission shall be allowed 
travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates 
authorized for an employee of an agency under subchapter I of chapter 
57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from home or regular 
place of business of the member in the performance of the duties of the 
Commission.
    (c) Staff.--
            (1) In general.--The Chairperson may, without regard to the 
        civil services laws (including regulations), appoint and 
        terminate an executive director and such other additional 
        personnel as are necessary to enable the Commission to perform 
        the duties of the Commission.
            (2) Confirmation of executive director.--The employment of 
        an executive director shall be subject to confirmation by the 
        Commission.
            (3) Compensation.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the Chairperson may fix the compensation of the 
                executive director and other personnel without regard 
                to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of 
                title 5, United States Code, relating to classification 
                of positions and General Schedule pay rates.
                    (B) Maximum rate of pay.--The rate of pay for the 
                executive director and other personnel shall not exceed 
                the rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule 
                under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.

SEC. 207. EXEMPTION FROM FACA.

    The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply 
to the Commission if all hearings of the Commission are held open to 
the public.

SEC. 208. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this title.

SEC. 209. TERMINATION OF COMMISSION.

    The Commission and the authority of the Commission under this title 
shall terminate on the date that is 3 years after the date on which the 
Commission holds the initial meeting of the Commission.

   TITLE III--INDIAN TRUST ASSET MANAGEMENT DEMONSTRATION PROJECT ACT

SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Indian Trust Asset Management 
Demonstration Project Act of 2005''.

SEC. 302. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Project.--The term ``Project'' means the Indian trust 
        asset management demonstration project established under 
        section 303(a).
            (2) Other indian tribe.--The term ``other Indian tribe'' 
        means an Indian tribe that--
                    (A) is federally recognized;
                    (B) is not a section 131 Indian tribe; and
                    (C) submits an application under section 303(c).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) Section 131 indian tribe.--The term ``section 131 
        Indian tribe'' means any Indian tribe that is participating in 
        the demonstration project under section 131 of title III, 
        division E of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public 
        Law 108-447; 118 Stat. 2809).

SEC. 303. ESTABLISHMENT OF DEMONSTRATION PROJECT; SELECTION OF 
              PARTICIPATING INDIAN TRIBES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish and carry out an 
Indian trust asset management demonstration project, in accordance with 
this title.
    (b) Selection of Participating Indian Tribes.--
            (1) Section 131 indian tribes.--A section 131 Indian tribe 
        shall be eligible to participate in the Project if the section 
        131 Indian tribe submits to the Secretary an application under 
        subsection (c).
            (2) Other tribes.--
                    (A) In general.--Any other Indian tribe shall be 
                eligible to participate in the Project if--
                            (i) the other Indian tribe submits to the 
                        Secretary an application under subsection (c); 
                        and
                            (ii) the Secretary approves the application 
                        of the other Indian tribe.
                    (B) Limitation.--
                            (i) 30 or fewer applicants.--If 30 or fewer 
                        other Indian tribes submit applications under 
                        subsection (c), each of the other Indian tribes 
                        shall be eligible to participate in the 
                        Project.
                            (ii) More than 30 applicants.--
                                    (I) In general.--If more than 30 
                                other Indian tribes submit applications 
                                under subsection (c), the Secretary 
                                shall select 30 other Indian tribes to 
                                participate in the Project.
                                    (II) Preference.--In selecting 
                                other Indian tribes under subclause 
                                (I), the Secretary shall give 
                                preference to other Indian tribes the 
                                applications of which were first 
                                received by the Secretary.
            (3) Notice.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall provide a 
                written notice to each Indian tribe selected to 
                participate in the Project.
                    (B) Contents.--A notice under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include--
                            (i) a statement that the application of the 
                        Indian tribe has been approved by the 
                        Secretary; and
                            (ii) a requirement that the Indian tribe 
                        shall submit to the Secretary a proposed Indian 
                        trust asset management plan in accordance with 
                        section 304.
    (c) Application.--
            (1) In general.--To be eligible to participate in the 
        Project, an Indian tribe shall submit to the Secretary a 
        written application in accordance with paragraph (2).
            (2) Requirements.--The Secretary shall take into 
        consideration an application under this subsection only if the 
        application--
                    (A) includes a copy of a resolution or other 
                appropriate action by the governing body of the Indian 
                tribe, as determined by the Secretary, in support of or 
                authorizing the application;
                    (B) is received by the Secretary by the date that 
                is 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act; 
                and
                    (C) states that the Indian tribe is requesting to 
                participate in the Project.
    (d) Duration.--The Project shall remain in effect for a period of 8 
years after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 304. INDIAN TRUST ASSET MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) Proposed Plan.--
            (1) Submission.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date on which an Indian tribe receives a notice from 
                the Secretary under section 303(b)(3), the Indian tribe 
                shall submit to the Secretary a proposed Indian trust 
                asset management plan in accordance with paragraph (2).
                    (B) Time limitations.--
                            (i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), any Indian tribe that fails to 
                        submit the Indian trust asset management plan 
                        of the Indian tribe by the date specified in 
                        subparagraph (A) shall no longer be eligible to 
                        participate in the Project.
                            (ii) Extension.--The Secretary shall grant 
                        an extension of not more than 60 days to an 
                        Indian tribe if the Indian tribe submits a 
                        written request for such an extension before 
                        the date described in subparagraph (A).
            (2) Contents.--A proposed Indian trust asset management 
        plan shall include provisions that--
                    (A) identify the trust assets that will be subject 
                to the plan, including financial and nonfinancial trust 
                assets;
                    (B) establish trust asset management objectives and 
                priorities for Indian trust assets that are located 
                within the reservation, or otherwise subject to the 
                jurisdiction, of the Indian tribe;
                    (C) allocate trust asset management funding that is 
                available for the Indian trust assets subject to the 
                plan in order to meet the trust asset management 
                objectives and priorities;
                    (D) if the Indian tribe has contracted or compacted 
                functions or activities under the Indian Self-
                Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 
                450 et seq.) relating to the management of trust 
                assets--
                            (i) identify the functions or activities 
                        that are being performed by the Indian tribe 
                        under the contracts or compacts; and
                            (ii) describe the proposed management 
                        systems, practices, and procedures that the 
                        Indian tribe will follow; and
                    (E) establish procedures for nonbinding mediation 
                or resolution of any dispute between the Indian tribe 
                and the United States relating to the trust asset 
                management plan.
            (3) Authority of indian tribes to develop systems, 
        practices, and procedures.--For purposes of preparing and 
        carrying out a management plan under this section, an Indian 
        tribe that has compacted or contracted activities or functions 
        under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
        Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), for purposes of carrying out the 
        activities or functions, may develop and carry out trust asset 
        management systems, practices, and procedures that differ from 
        any such systems, practices, and procedures used by the 
        Secretary in managing the trust assets if the systems, 
        practices, and procedures of the Indian tribe meet the 
        requirements of the laws, standards, and responsibilities 
        described in subsection (c).
            (4) Technical assistance and information.--The Secretary 
        shall provide to an Indian tribe any technical assistance and 
        information, including budgetary information, that the Indian 
        tribe determines to be necessary for preparation of a proposed 
        plan on receipt of a written request from the Indian tribe.
    (b) Approval and Disapproval of Proposed Plans.--
            (1) Approval.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                date on which an Indian tribe submits a proposed Indian 
                trust asset management plan under subsection (a), 
                Secretary shall approve or disapprove the proposed 
                plan.
                    (B) Requirements for disapproval.--The Secretary 
                shall approve a proposed plan unless the Secretary 
                determines that--
                            (i) the proposed plan fails to address a 
                        requirement under subsection (a)(2);
                            (ii) the proposed plan includes 1 or more 
                        provisions that are inconsistent with 
                        subsection (c); or
                            (iii) the cost of implementing the proposed 
                        plan exceeds the amount of funding available 
                        for the management of trust assets that would 
                        be subject to the proposed plan.
            (2) Action on disapproval.--
                    (A) Notice.--If the Secretary disapproves a 
                proposed plan under paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary 
                shall provide to the Indian tribe a written notice of 
                the disapproval, including any reason why the proposed 
                plan was disapproved.
                    (B) Action by tribes.--An Indian tribe the proposed 
                plan of which is disapproved under paragraph (1)(B) may 
                resubmit an amended proposed plan not later than 90 
                days after the date on which the Indian tribe receives 
                the notice under subparagraph (A).
            (3) Failure to approve or disapprove.--If the Secretary 
        fails to approve or disapprove a proposed plan in accordance 
        with paragraph (1), the plan shall be considered to be 
        disapproved under clauses (i) and (ii) of paragraph (1)(B).
            (4) Judicial review.--An Indian tribe may seek judicial 
        review of the determination of the Secretary in accordance with 
        subchapter II of chapter 5, and chapter 7, of title 5, United 
        States Code (commonly known as the ``Administrative Procedure 
        Act'') if--
                    (A) the Secretary disapproves the proposed plan of 
                the Indian tribe under paragraph (1) or (3); and
                    (B) the Indian tribe has exhausted any other 
                administrative remedy available to the Indian tribe.
    (c) Applicable Laws; Standards; Trust Responsibility.--
            (1) Applicable laws.--An Indian trust asset management 
        plan, and any activity carried out under the plan, shall not be 
        approved unless the proposed plan is consistent with--
                    (A) all Federal treaties, statutes, regulations, 
                Executive orders, and court decisions that are 
                applicable to the trust assets, or the management of 
                the trust assets, identified in the plan; and
                    (B) all tribal laws that are applicable to the 
                trust assets, or the management of trust assets, 
                identified in the plan, except to the extent that the 
                laws are inconsistent with the treaties, statutes, 
                regulations, Executive orders, and court decisions 
                referred to in subparagraph (A).
            (2) Standards.--Subject to the laws referred to in 
        paragraph (1)(A), an Indian trust asset management plan shall 
        not be approved unless the Secretary determines that the plan 
        will--
                    (A) protect trust assets from loss, waste, and 
                unlawful alienation;
                    (B) promote the interests of the beneficial owner 
                of the trust asset;
                    (C) conform, to the maximum extent practicable, to 
                the preferred use of the trust asset by the beneficial 
                owner, unless the use is inconsistent with a treaty, 
                statute, regulation, Executive order, or court decision 
                referred to in paragraph (1)(A);
                    (D) protect any applicable treaty-based fishing, 
                hunting and gathering, and similar rights relating to 
                the use, access, or enjoyment of a trust asset; and
                    (E) require that any activity carried out under the 
                plan be carried out in good faith and with loyalty to 
                the beneficial owner of the trust asset.
            (3) Trust responsibility.--An Indian trust asset management 
        plan shall not be approved unless the Secretary determines that 
        the plan is consistent with the trust responsibility of the 
        United States to the Indian tribe and individual Indians.
    (d) Termination of Plan.--
            (1) In general.--An Indian tribe may terminate an Indian 
        trust asset management plan on any date after the date on which 
        a proposed Indian trust asset management plan is approved by 
        providing to the Secretary--
                    (A) a notice of the intent of the Indian tribe to 
                terminate the plan; and
                    (B) a resolution of the governing body of the 
                Indian tribe authorizing the termination of the plan.
            (2) Effective date.--A termination of an Indian trust asset 
        management plan under paragraph (1) takes effect on October 1 
        of the first fiscal year following the date on which a notice 
        is provided to the Secretary under paragraph (1)(A).

SEC. 305. EFFECT OF TITLE.

    (a) Liability.--Nothing in this title, or a trust asset management 
plan approved under section 304, shall independently diminish, 
increase, create, or otherwise affect the liability of the United 
States or an Indian tribe participating in the Project for any loss 
resulting from the management of an Indian trust asset under an Indian 
trust asset management plan.
    (b) Effect on Other Laws.--Nothing in this title amends or 
otherwise affects the application of any treaty, statute, regulation, 
Executive order, or court decision that is applicable to Indian trust 
assets or the management or administration of Indian trust assets, 
including the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
(25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.).
    (c) Trust Responsibility.--Nothing in this title diminishes or 
otherwise affects the trust responsibility of the United States to 
Indian tribes and individual Indians.

    TITLE IV--FRACTIONAL INTEREST PURCHASE AND CONSOLIDATION PROGRAM

SEC. 401. FRACTIONAL INTEREST PROGRAM.

    Section 213 of the Indian Land Consolidation Act (25 U.S.C. 2212) 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (h); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) Purchase of Interests in Fractionated Indian Land.--
            ``(1) Incentives.--In acquiring an interest under this 
        section in any parcel of land that includes undivided trust or 
        restricted interests owned by not less than 20 separate 
        individuals, as determined by the Secretary, the Secretary may 
        include in the offered purchase price for the interest, in 
        addition to fair market value, an amount not less than $100 and 
        not to exceed $350, as an incentive for the owner to sell the 
        interest to the Secretary.
            ``(2) Sale of all trust or restricted interests.--If an 
        individual agrees to sell to the Secretary all trust or 
        restricted interests owned by the individual, the Secretary may 
        include in the offered purchase price, in addition to fair 
        market value and the incentive described in paragraph (1), an 
        amount not to exceed $2,000, as the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate, taking into consideration the avoided costs to the 
        United States of probating the estate of the individual or an 
        heir of the individual.
    ``(e) Certain Parcels of Highly Fractionated Indian Land.--
            ``(1) Definition of offeree.--In this subsection, the term 
        `offeree' does not include the Indian tribe that has 
        jurisdiction over a parcel of land for which an offer is made.
            ``(2) Offer to purchase.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If the Secretary determines that 
                a tract of land consists of not less than 200 separate 
                undivided trust or restricted interests, the Secretary 
                may offer to purchase the interests in the tract, in 
                accordance with this subsection, for an amount equal to 
                the sum of--
                            ``(i) the fair market value of the 
                        interests; and
                            ``(ii) an additional amount, to be 
                        determined by the Secretary, not less than 
                        triple the fair market value of the interest.
                    ``(B) Requirement.--The Secretary shall make an 
                offer under subparagraph (A) not later than 3 days 
                before the date on which the Secretary mails a notice 
                of the offer to the offeree under paragraph (3).
            ``(3) Notice of offer.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall provide to 
                an offeree, by certified mail to the last known address 
                of the offeree, a notice of any offer to purchase land 
                under this subsection.
                    ``(B) Inclusions.--A notice under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include in plain language, as determined by the 
                Secretary--
                            ``(i) the date on which the offer was made;
                            ``(ii) the name of the offeree;
                            ``(iii) the location of the tract of land 
                        containing the interest that is the subject of 
                        the offer;
                            ``(iv) the size of the interest of the 
                        offeree, expressed in terms of a fraction or a 
                        percentage of the tract of land described in 
                        clause (iii);
                            ``(v) the fair market value of the tract of 
                        land described in clause (iii);
                            ``(vi) the fair market value of the 
                        interest of the offeree;
                            ``(vii) the amount offered for the interest 
                        in addition to fair market value under 
                        paragraph (2)(A)(ii);
                            ``(viii) a statement that the offeree shall 
                        be considered to have accepted the offer for 
                        the amount stated in the notice unless a notice 
                        of rejection form is deposited in the United 
                        States mail not later than 90 days after the 
                        date on which the offer is received; and
                            ``(ix) a self-addressed, postage pre-paid 
                        notice of rejection form.
            ``(4) Treatment of offer.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An offer made under this 
                subsection shall be considered to be accepted by the 
                offeree if--
                            ``(i) the certified mail receipt for the 
                        offer is signed by the offeree; and
                            ``(ii) the notice of rejection form 
                        described in paragraph (3)(B)(ix) is not 
                        deposited in the United States mail by the date 
                        that is 90 days after the date on which the 
                        offer is received.
                    ``(B) Rejection.--An offer made under this 
                subsection shall be considered to be rejected by the 
                offeree if--
                            ``(i) the notice of rejection form 
                        described in paragraph (3)(B)(ix) is deposited 
                        in the United States mail by the date that is 
                        90 days after the date on which the offer is 
                        received; or
                            ``(ii) the certified mail receipt for the 
                        offer is returned to the Secretary unsigned by 
                        the offeree.
            ``(5) Withdrawal of acceptance; notice.--
                    ``(A) Withdrawal of acceptance.--A person that is 
                considered to have accepted an offer under paragraph 
                (4)(A) may withdraw the acceptance by depositing in the 
                United States mail a notice of withdrawal of acceptance 
                form by the date that is 30 days after the date of 
                receipt of the notice under subparagraph (B).
                    ``(B) Notice.--The Secretary shall provide to any 
                person that is considered to have accepted an offer 
                under paragraph (4)(A), by certified mail, restricted 
                delivery, to the last known address of the person, a 
                preaddressed, postage prepaid withdrawal of acceptance 
                form and a notice stating that--
                            ``(i) the offer made to the person is 
                        considered to be accepted; and
                            ``(ii) the person has the right to withdraw 
                        the acceptance by depositing in the United 
                        States mail the notice of withdrawal of 
                        acceptance form by the date that is 30 days 
                        after the date on which the notice was 
                        delivered to the person.
            ``(6) Notice of acceptance and right to appeal.--The 
        Secretary shall provide to any person that has been served with 
        a notice under paragraph (5)(B) and fails to withdraw the 
        acceptance of the offer in accordance with paragraph (5)(A), by 
        first class mail to the last known address of the person, a 
        notice stating that--
                    ``(A) the offer made to the person is considered to 
                be accepted and not timely withdrawn; and
                    ``(B) after exhausting all administrative remedies, 
                the person may appeal any determination of the 
                Secretary in accordance with paragraph (7).
            ``(7) Judicial review.--A person described in paragraph (6) 
        may appeal any determination of the Secretary with respect to--
                    ``(A) the number of owners of undivided interests 
                in a tract of land required under paragraph (2);
                    ``(B) the fair market value of a tract of land or 
                interest in land;
                    ``(C) the date on which a notice of rejection form 
                was deposited in the United States mail under paragraph 
                (4)(B)(i); or
                    ``(D) the date on which a notice of withdrawal of 
                acceptance form was deposited in the United States mail 
                under paragraph (5)(A).
    ``(f) Offer to Settle Claims Against the United States.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may make an offer to any 
        individual owner (not including an Indian tribe) of a trust or 
        restricted interest in a tract of land to settle any claim that 
        the owner may have against the United States relating to the 
        specific tract of land of which the interest is a part (not 
        including a claim for an accounting described in title I of the 
        Indian Trust Reform Act of 2005).
            ``(2) Requirements.--An offer to settle claims under this 
        subsection shall--
                    ``(A) be in writing;
                    ``(B) be delivered to an individual owner by the 
                Secretary in person or through first class mail; and
                    ``(C) include--
                            ``(i) the name of the individual owner;
                            ``(ii) a description of the tract of land 
                        to which the offer relates;
                            ``(iii) the amount offered to settle a 
                        claim of the individual owner;
                            ``(iv) the manner and date by which the 
                        individual owner shall accept the offer;
                            ``(v) a statement that the individual owner 
                        is under no obligation to accept the offer;
                            ``(vi) a statement that the individual 
                        owner has the right to consult an attorney or 
                        other advisor before accepting the offer;
                            ``(vii) a statement that acceptance of the 
                        offer by the individual owner will result in a 
                        full and final settlement of all claims, known 
                        and unknown, of the individual owner (including 
                        the heirs and assigns of the individual owner) 
                        against the United States relating to the tract 
                        of land identified in the offer; and
                            ``(viii) a statement that the settlement 
                        proposed by the offer does not cover any claim 
                        for an accounting described in title I of the 
                        Indian Trust Reform Act of 2005.
            ``(3) Acceptance.--No acceptance of an offer under this 
        subsection shall be valid or binding on the individual owner 
        unless the acceptance--
                    ``(A) is in writing;
                    ``(B) is signed by the individual owner;
                    ``(C) is notarized; and
                    ``(D) is attached to a copy of, or contains all 
                material terms of, the offer to which the acceptance 
                corresponds.
            ``(4) Limitation.--No offer to purchase an interest under 
        this section or any other provision of law shall be conditioned 
        on the acceptance of an offer to settle a claim under this 
        subsection.
            ``(5) Other laws.--The authority of the Secretary to settle 
        claims under this subsection shall be in addition to, and not 
        in lieu of, the authority of the Secretary to settle claims 
        under any other provision of Federal law.
    ``(g) Borrowing From Treasury.--
            ``(1) Issuance of obligations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--To the extent approved in annual 
                appropriations Acts, the Secretary may issue to the 
                Secretary of the Treasury obligations in such amounts 
                as the Secretary determines to be necessary to acquire 
                interests under this Act, subject to approval of the 
                Secretary of the Treasury, and bearing interest at a 
                rate to be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, 
                taking into consideration current market yields on 
                outstanding marketable obligations of the United States 
                of comparable maturities to the obligations.
                    ``(B) Limitation.--The aggregate amount of 
                obligations under subparagraph (A) outstanding at any 
                time shall not exceed $[______].
            ``(2) Forms and denominations.--The obligations issued 
        under paragraph (1) shall be in such forms and denominations, 
        and subject to such other terms and conditions, as the 
        Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe.
            ``(3) Repayment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Revenues derived from land 
                restored to the Tribe under this Act shall be used by 
                the Secretary to pay the principal and interest on the 
                obligations issued under paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) Assurance of repayment.--The Secretary shall 
                ensure, to the maximum extent possible, that the 
                revenues described in subparagraph (A) provide 
                reasonable assurance of repayment of the obligations 
                issued under paragraph (1).
            ``(4) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
        authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for each fiscal 
        year beginning after the date of enactment of this subsection 
        such sums as are necessary to cover any difference between--
                    ``(A) the total amount of repayments of principal 
                and interest on obligations issued to the Secretary of 
                the Treasury under paragraph (1) during the previous 
                fiscal year; and
                    ``(B) the total amount of repayments described in 
                subparagraph (A) that were contractually required to be 
                made to the Secretary of the Treasury during that 
                fiscal year.
    ``(h) Receipt of Payments Have No Impact on Benefits Under Other 
Federal Programs.--The receipt of a payment by an offeree under this 
title shall not be--
            ``(1) subject to Federal or State income tax; or
            ``(2) treated as benefits or otherwise taken into account 
        in determining the eligibility of the offeree for, or the 
        amount of benefits under, any other Federal program, including 
        the social security program, the medicare program, the medicaid 
        program, the State children's health insurance program, the 
        food stamp program, or the Temporary Assistance for Needy 
        Families program.''.

 TITLE V--RESTRUCTURING BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS AND OFFICE OF SPECIAL 
                                TRUSTEE

SEC. 501. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to ensure a more effective and 
accountable administration of duties of the Secretary of the Interior 
with respect to providing services and programs to Indians and Indian 
tribes, including the management of Indian trust resources.

SEC. 502. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Bureau.--The term ``Bureau'' means the Bureau of Indian 
        Affairs.
            (2) Office.--The term ``Office'' means the Office of Trust 
        Reform Implementation and Oversight referred to in section 
        503(c).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) Under secretary.--The term ``Under Secretary'' means 
        the individual appointed to the position of Under Secretary for 
        Indian Affairs, established by section 503(a).

SEC. 503. UNDER SECRETARY FOR INDIAN AFFAIRS.

    (a) Establishment of Position.--There is established in the 
Department of the Interior the position of Under Secretary for Indian 
Affairs, who shall report directly to the Secretary.
    (b) Appointment.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Under Secretary shall be appointed by the President, by and 
        with the advice and consent of the Senate.
            (2) Exception.--The officer serving as the Assistant 
        Secretary for Indian Affairs on the date of enactment of this 
        Act may assume the position of Under Secretary without 
        appointment under paragraph (1) if--
                    (A) the officer was appointed as Assistant 
                Secretary for Indian Affairs by the President by and 
                with the advice and consent of the Senate; and
                    (B) not later than 180 days after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, the Secretary approves the 
                assumption.
    (c) Duties.--In addition to the duties transferred to the Under 
Secretary under sections 504 and 505, the Under Secretary, acting 
through an Office of Trust Reform Implementation and Oversight, shall--
            (1) carry out any activity relating to trust fund accounts 
        and trust resource management of the Bureau (except any 
        activity carried out under the Office of the Special Trustee 
        for American Indians before the date on which the Office of the 
        Special Trustee is abolished), in accordance with the American 
        Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 4001 
        et seq.);
            (2) develop and maintain an inventory of Indian trust 
        assets and resources;
            (3) coordinate with the Special Trustee for American 
        Indians to ensure an orderly transition of the functions of the 
        Special Trustee under section 505;
            (4) supervise any activity carried out by the Department of 
        the Interior, including--
                    (A) to the extent that the activities relate to 
                Indian affairs, activities carried out by--
                            (i) the Commissioner of Reclamation;
                            (ii) the Director of the Bureau of Land 
                        Management; and
                            (iii) the Director of the Minerals 
                        Management Service; and
                    (B) intergovernmental relations between the Bureau 
                and Indian tribal governments;
            (5) to the maximum extent practicable, coordinate 
        activities and policies of the Bureau with activities and 
        policies of--
                    (A) the Bureau of Reclamation;
                    (B) the Bureau of Land Management; and
                    (C) the Minerals Management Service;
            (6) provide for regular consultation with Indians and 
        Indian tribes that own interests in trust resources and trust 
        fund accounts;
            (7) manage and administer Indian trust resources in 
        accordance with any applicable Federal law;
            (8) take steps to protect the security of data relating to 
        individual Indian and Indian tribal trust accounts; and
            (9) take any other measure the Under Secretary determines 
        to be necessary with respect to Indian affairs.

SEC. 504. TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR INDIAN 
              AFFAIRS.

    (a) Transfer of Functions.--There is transferred to the Under 
Secretary any function of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs 
that has not been carried out by the Assistant Secretary as of the date 
of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Determinations of Certain Functions by the Office of Management 
and Budget.--If necessary, the Office of Management and Budget shall 
make any determination relating to the functions transferred under 
subsection (a).
    (c) Personnel Provisions.--
            (1) Appointments.--The Under Secretary may appoint and fix 
        the compensation of such officers and employees as the Under 
        Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out any function 
        transferred under this section.
            (2) Requirements.--Except as otherwise provided by law--
                    (A) an officer or employee described in paragraph 
                (1) shall be appointed in accordance with the civil 
                service laws; and
                    (B) the compensation of the officer or employee 
                shall be fixed in accordance with title 5, United 
                States Code.
    (d) Delegation and Assignment.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise expressly prohibited 
        by law or otherwise provided by this section, the Under 
        Secretary may--
                    (A) delegate any of the functions transferred to 
                the Under Secretary by this section and any function 
                transferred or granted to the Under Secretary after the 
                date of enactment of this Act to such officers and 
                employees of the Office as the Under Secretary may 
                designate; and
                    (B) authorize successive redelegations of such 
                functions as the Under Secretary determines to be 
                necessary or appropriate.
            (2) Delegation.--No delegation of functions by the Under 
        Secretary under this section shall relieve the Under Secretary 
        of responsibility for the administration of the functions.
    (e) Reorganization.--The Under Secretary may allocate or reallocate 
any function transferred under this section among the officers of the 
Office, and establish, consolidate, alter, or discontinue such 
organizational entities in the Office, as the Under Secretary 
determines to be necessary or appropriate.
    (f) Rules.--The Under Secretary may prescribe, in accordance with 
the provisions of chapters 5 and 6 of title 5, United States Code, such 
rules and regulations as the Under Secretary determines to be necessary 
or appropriate to administer and manage the functions of the Office.
    (g) Transfer and Allocations of Appropriations and Personnel.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        section, the personnel employed in connection with, and the 
        assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and 
        unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, 
        allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, arising 
        from, available to, or to be made available in connection with, 
        the functions transferred by this section, subject to section 
        1531 of title 31, United States Code, shall be transferred to 
        the Office.
            (2) Unexpended funds.--Unexpended funds transferred 
        pursuant to this subsection shall be used only for the purposes 
        for which the funds were originally authorized and 
        appropriated.
    (h) Incidental Transfers.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the Office of Management 
        and Budget, at any time the Director may provide, may make such 
        determinations as are necessary with regard to the functions 
        transferred by this section, and make such additional 
        incidental dispositions of personnel, assets, liabilities, 
        grants, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balances 
        of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds 
        held, used, arising from, available to, or to be made available 
        in connection with such functions, as are necessary, to carry 
        out this section.
            (2) Termination of affairs.--The Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget shall provide for the termination of the 
        affairs of all entities terminated by this section and for any 
        further measures and dispositions as are necessary to 
        effectuate the purposes of this section.
    (i) Effect on Personnel.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided by this 
        section, the transfer pursuant to this section of full-time 
        personnel (except special Government employees) and part-time 
        personnel holding permanent positions shall not cause any such 
        employee to be separated or reduced in grade or compensation 
        for a period of at least 1 year after the date of transfer of 
        the employee under this section.
            (2) Executive schedule positions.--Except as otherwise 
        provided in this section, any person who, on the day preceding 
        the date of enactment of this Act, held a position compensated 
        in accordance with the Executive Schedule prescribed in chapter 
        53 of title 5, United States Code, and who, without a break in 
        service, is appointed to a position in the Office having duties 
        comparable to the duties performed immediately preceding such 
        appointment shall continue to be compensated in the new 
        position at not less than the rate provided for the previous 
        position, for the duration of the service of the person in the 
        new position.
            (3) Termination of certain positions.--Positions whose 
        incumbents are appointed by the President, by and with the 
        advice and consent of the Senate, the functions of which are 
        transferred by this title, shall terminate on the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
    (j) Separability.--If a provision of this section or the 
application of this section to any person or circumstance is held 
invalid, neither the remainder of this section nor the application of 
the provision to other persons or circumstances shall be affected.
    (k) Transition.--The Under Secretary may use--
            (1) the services of the officers, employees, and other 
        personnel of the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs 
        relating to functions transferred to the Office by this 
        section; and
            (2) funds appropriated to the functions for such period of 
        time as may reasonably be needed to facilitate the orderly 
        implementation of this section.
    (l) References.--Any reference in a Federal law, Executive order, 
rule, regulation, delegation of authority, or document relating to the 
Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, with respect to functions 
transferred under this section, shall be deemed to be a reference to 
the Under Secretary.
    (m) Recommended Legislation.--Not later than 180 days after the 
effective date of this title, the Under Secretary, in consultation with 
the appropriate committees of Congress and the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, shall submit to Congress any recommendations 
relating to additional technical and conforming amendments to Federal 
law to reflect the changes made by this section.
    (n) Effect of Section.--
            (1) Continuing effect of legal documents.--Any legal 
        document relating to a function transferred by this section 
        that is in effect on the date of enactment of this Act shall 
        continue in effect in accordance with the terms of the document 
        until the document is modified or terminated by--
                    (A) the President;
                    (B) the Under Secretary;
                    (C) a court of competent jurisdiction; or
                    (D) operation of Federal or State law.
            (2) Proceedings not affected.--This section shall not 
        affect any proceeding (including a notice of proposed 
        rulemaking, an administrative proceeding, and an application 
        for a license, permit, certificate, or financial assistance) 
        relating to a function transferred under this section that is 
        pending before the Assistant Secretary on the date of enactment 
        of this Act.

SEC. 505. OFFICE OF SPECIAL TRUSTEE FOR AMERICAN INDIANS.

    (a) Termination.--Notwithstanding sections 302 and 303 of the 
American Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 
4042; 4043), the Office of Special Trustee for American Indians shall 
terminate on the effective date of this section.
    (b) Transfer of Functions.--There is transferred to the Under 
Secretary any function of the Special Trustee for American Indians that 
has not been carried out by the Special Trustee as of the effective 
date of this section.
    (c) Determinations of Certain Functions by the Office of Management 
and Budget.--If necessary, the Office of Management and Budget shall 
make any determination relating to the functions transferred under 
subsection (b).
    (d) Personnel Provisions.--
            (1) Appointments.--The Under Secretary may appoint and fix 
        the compensation of such officers and employees as the Under 
        Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out any function 
        transferred under this section.
            (2) Requirements.--Except as otherwise provided by law--
                    (A) any officer or employee described in paragraph 
                (1) shall be appointed in accordance with the civil 
                service laws; and
                    (B) the compensation of such an officer or employee 
                shall be fixed in accordance with title 5, United 
                States Code.
    (e) Delegation and Assignment.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise expressly prohibited 
        by law or otherwise provided by this section, the Under 
        Secretary may--
                    (A) delegate any of the functions transferred to 
                the Under Secretary under this section and any function 
                transferred or granted to the Under Secretary after the 
                effective date of this section to such officers and 
                employees of the Office as the Under Secretary may 
                designate; and
                    (B) authorize successive redelegations of the 
                functions as are necessary or appropriate.
            (2) Delegation.--No delegation of functions by the Under 
        Secretary under this section shall relieve the Under Secretary 
        of responsibility for the administration of the functions.
    (f) Reorganization.--The Under Secretary may allocate or reallocate 
any function transferred under subsection (b) among the officers of the 
Office, and establish, consolidate, alter, or discontinue such 
organizational entities in the Office as the Under Secretary determines 
to be necessary or appropriate.
    (g) Rules.--The Under Secretary may prescribe, in accordance with 
the provisions of chapters 5 and 6 of title 5, United States Code, such 
rules and regulations as the Under Secretary determines to be necessary 
or appropriate to administer and manage the functions of the Office.
    (h) Transfer and Allocations of Appropriations and Personnel.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        section, the personnel employed in connection with, and the 
        assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and 
        unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, 
        allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, arising 
        from, available to, or to be made available in connection with 
        the functions transferred by this section, subject to section 
        1531 of title 31, United States Code, shall be transferred to 
        the Office.
            (2) Unexpended funds.--Unexpended funds transferred 
        pursuant to this subsection shall be used only for the purposes 
        for which the funds were originally authorized and 
        appropriated.
    (i) Incidental Transfers.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the Office of Management 
        and Budget, at any time the Director may provide, may make such 
        determinations as are necessary with regard to the functions 
        transferred by this section, and make such additional 
        incidental dispositions of personnel, assets, liabilities, 
        grants, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balances 
        of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds 
        held, used, arising from, available to, or to be made available 
        in connection with such functions, as are necessary, to carry 
        out this section.
            (2) Termination of affairs.--The Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget shall provide for the termination of the 
        affairs of all entities terminated by this section and for any 
        further measures and dispositions as are necessary to 
        effectuate the purposes of this section.
    (j) Effect on Personnel.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided by this 
        section, the transfer pursuant to this section of full-time 
        personnel (except special Government employees) and part-time 
        personnel holding permanent positions shall not cause any such 
        employee to be separated or reduced in grade or compensation 
        for a period of at least 1 year after the date of transfer of 
        the employee under this section.
            (2) Executive schedule positions.--Except as otherwise 
        provided in this section, any person who, on the day preceding 
        the effective date of this section, held a position compensated 
        in accordance with the Executive Schedule prescribed in chapter 
        53 of title 5, United States Code, and who, without a break in 
        service, is appointed to a position in the Office having duties 
        comparable to the duties performed immediately preceding such 
        appointment, shall continue to be compensated in the new 
        position at not less than the rate provided for the previous 
        position, for the duration of the service of the person in the 
        new position.
            (3) Termination of certain positions.--Positions the 
        incumbents of which are appointed by the President, by and with 
        the advice and consent of the Senate, and the functions of 
        which are transferred by this title, shall terminate on the 
        effective date of this section.
    (k) Separability.--If a provision of this section or the 
application of this section to any person or circumstance is held 
invalid, neither the remainder of this section nor the application of 
the provision to other persons or circumstances shall be affected.
    (l) Transition.--The Under Secretary may use--
            (1) the services of the officers, employees, and other 
        personnel of the Special Trustee relating to functions 
        transferred to the Office by this section; and
            (2) funds appropriated to those functions for such period 
        of time as may reasonably be needed to facilitate the orderly 
        implementation of this section.
    (m) References.--Any reference in a Federal law, Executive order, 
rule, regulation, delegation of authority, or document relating to the 
Special Trustee, with respect to functions transferred under this 
section, shall be deemed to be a reference to the Under Secretary.
    (n) Recommended Legislation.--Not later than 180 days after the 
effective date of this title, the Under Secretary, in consultation with 
the appropriate committees of Congress and the Director of the Office 
of Management and Budget, shall submit to Congress any recommendations 
relating to additional technical and conforming amendments to Federal 
law to reflect the changes made by this section.
    (o) Effect of Section.--
            (1) Continuing effect of legal documents.--Any legal 
        document relating to a function transferred by this section 
        that is in effect on the effective date of this section shall 
        continue in effect in accordance with the terms of the document 
        until the document is modified or terminated by--
                    (A) the President;
                    (B) the Under Secretary;
                    (C) a court of competent jurisdiction; or
                    (D) operation of Federal or State law.
            (2) Proceedings not affected.--This section shall not 
        affect any proceeding (including a notice of proposed 
        rulemaking, an administrative proceeding, and an application 
        for a license, permit, certificate, or financial assistance) 
        relating to a function transferred under this section that is 
        pending before the Special Trustee on the effective date of 
        this section.
    (p) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on December 31, 
2008.

SEC. 506. HIRING PREFERENCE.

    In appointing or otherwise hiring any employee to the Office, the 
Under Secretary shall give preference to Indians in accordance with 
section 12 of the Act of June 8, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 472).

SEC. 507. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this title.

                 TITLE VI--AUDIT OF INDIAN TRUST FUNDS

SEC. 601. AUDITS AND REPORTS.

    (a) Financial Statements and Internal Control Report.--
            (1) Financial statements.--For each fiscal year beginning 
        after the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Interior 
        shall prepare financial statements for individual Indian, 
        Indian tribal, and other Indian trust accounts in accordance 
        with generally accepted accounting principles of the Federal 
        Government.
            (2) Internal control report.--Concurrently with the 
        financial statements under by paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        shall prepare an internal control report that--
                    (A) establishes the responsibility of the Secretary 
                for establishing and maintaining an adequate internal 
                control structure and procedures for financial 
                reporting under this Act; and
                    (B) assesses the effectiveness of the internal 
                control structure and procedures for financial 
                reporting under subparagraph (A) during the preceding 
                fiscal year.
    (b) Independent External Auditor.--
            (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall enter into a contract with an independent external 
        auditor to conduct an audit and prepare a report in accordance 
        with this subparagraph.
            (2) Audit report.--An independent external auditor shall 
        submit to the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate, and 
        make available to the public, an audit of the financial 
        statements under subsection (a)(1) in accordance with--
                    (A) generally accepted auditing standards of the 
                Federal Government; and
                    (B) the financial audit manual jointly issued by 
                the Government Accountability Office and the Council on 
                Integrity and Efficiency of the President.
            (3) Attestation and report.--In conducting the audit under 
        paragraph (2), the independent external auditor shall attest 
        to, and report on, the assessment of internal controls made by 
        the Secretary under subsection (a)(2)(B).
            (4) Payment for audit and report.--
                    (A) Transfer of funds.--On request of the 
                Comptroller General, the Secretary shall transfer to 
                the Government Accountability Office from funds made 
                available for administrative expenses of the Department 
                of Interior the amount requested by the Comptroller 
                General to pay for an annual audit and report.
                    (B) Credit to account.--
                            (i) In general.--The Controller General 
                        shall credit the amount of any funds 
                        transferred under subparagraph (A) to the 
                        account established for salaries and expenses 
                        of the Government Accountability Office.
                            (ii) Availability.--Any amount credited 
                        under clause (i) shall be made available on 
                        receipt, without fiscal year limitation, to 
                        cover the full costs of the audit and report.

SEC. 602. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this title.
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 108th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 869 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







108th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 869

To amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for enhanced 
 reimbursement under the medicare program for screening and diagnostic 
             mammography services, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             2003/04/10

  Mr. Harkin (for himself, Ms. Snowe, Mr. Inouye, Mr. Graham of South 
    Carolina, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Corzine, Mr. Biden, Mr. Specter, Ms. 
 Landrieu, Mr. Johnson, Mrs. Lincoln, Mr. Hollings, Ms. Mikulski, Mrs. 
Clinton, and Ms. Collins) introduced the following bill; which was read 
             twice and referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for enhanced 
 reimbursement under the medicare program for screening and diagnostic 
             mammography services, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Assure Access to Mammography Act of 
2003''.

SEC. 2. ENHANCED REIMBURSEMENT UNDER THE MEDICARE PROGRAM FOR SCREENING 
              AND DIAGNOSTIC MAMMOGRAPHY SERVICES FURNISHED IN 2003.

    (a) Payments to Facilities for Screening and Diagnostic 
Mammography.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, with respect to payment for a screening or diagnostic 
        mammography furnished to a medicare beneficiary, the amount of 
        payment made to a hospital-based facility (defined in paragraph 
        (4)) in which such screening or diagnostic mammography is 
        performed during the applicable period described in paragraph 
        (3) is equal to 200 percent of the amount of payment that would 
        otherwise apply under the fee schedule established under 
        section 1848 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-4) 
        with respect to the technical component of such screening or 
        diagnostic mammography.
            (2) Temporary payment rule.--With respect to payments to a 
        hospital-based facility for screening or diagnostic mammography 
        described in paragraph (1) during the applicable period, 
        payment shall be made to the facility for such mammography 
        pursuant to this subsection and shall not be made under section 
        1833(t) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395l(t)).
            (3) Applicable period.--The applicable period referred to 
        in paragraph (1) is the period beginning on the date of the 
        enactment of this Act and ending on the date the Secretary 
        establishes and implements an appropriate facility payment rate 
        under the prospective payment system for covered outpatient 
        services under such section 1833(t) for a screening or 
        diagnostic mammography furnished to a medicare beneficiary, but 
        in no case less than the amount payment provided for in 
        paragraph (1).
            (4) Hospital-based facility defined.--In this subsection, 
        the term ``hospital-based facility'' means a facility for which 
        payment is made for a diagnostic or screening mammography under 
        such section 1833(t) but for this subsection.
    (b) Not Counting Certain Radiology Residents Against Graduate 
Medical Education Limitations.--
            (1) In general.--For cost reporting periods beginning on or 
        after Oct 1, 2003, and before 2008-10-01, in applying 
        the limitations regarding the total number of full-time 
        equivalent residents in the field of allopathic or osteopathic 
        medicine under subsections (d)(5)(B)(v) and (h)(4)(F) of 
        section 1886 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww) for 
        a hospital, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
        not take into account 1 additional resident in the field of 
        radiology per post-graduate year during each such cost 
        reporting period to the extent the hospital increases the 
        number of radiology residents above the number of such 
        residents for the hospital's most recent cost reporting period 
        ending before Oct 1, 2003.
            (2) Treatment for entire period of training program.--The 
        provisions of paragraph (1) shall apply for each year of the 
        full-time equivalent resident's approved medical residency 
        training program in the field of radiology not taken into 
        account by reason of paragraph (1).
    (c) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be construed as 
affecting the provisions of section 104(d) of the Medicare, Medicaid, 
and SCHIP Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000 (as enacted 
into law by section 1(a)(6) of Public Law 106-554) (relating to payment 
for new technologies).

SEC. 3. IOM STUDY AND REPORT ON MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT FOR GENDER-
              SPECIFIC SERVICES.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall enter 
into an arrangement with the Institute of Medicine of the National 
Academy of Sciences to conduct a study of--
            (1) the relative value units established by the Secretary 
        under the medicare physician fee schedule under section 1848 of 
        the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-4) for physicians' 
        services that are gender-specific; and
            (2) adjustments to payment amounts under the prospective 
        payment systems for inpatient hospital services (under section 
        1886(d) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395ww(d))) and for covered 
        skilled nursing facility services (under section 1888(e) of 
        such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395yy(e))) that are gender specific.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Such arrangement shall provide that the 
        Institute shall submit to the Secretary a report on the study 
        conducted under subsection (a) by not later than December 31, 
        2004.
            (2) Recommendations.--The report shall include such 
        recommendations regarding the appropriateness of adjusting the 
        relative value units for physicians' services or the 
        prospective payment amounts for inpatient hospital services or 
        covered skilled nursing facility services that are gender-
        specific, as the Institute determines appropriate.
            (3) Transmission to congress.--The Secretary shall promptly 
        transmit a copy of such report to Congress.

SEC. 4. MEDPAC STUDY AND REPORT ON MEDICARE REIMBURSEMENT FOR SCREENING 
              SERVICES.

    (a) Study.--The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission shall conduct 
a study of the relative value units established by the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services under the medicare physician fee schedule 
under section 1848 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-4) for 
screening services that are reimbursed under such fee schedule.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1, March 2004, the Commission shall 
submit to Congress a report on the study conducted under subsection 
(a), together with such recommendations regarding the appropriateness 
of adjusting the relative value units for screening services that are 
reimbursed under the physician fee schedule as the Commission 
determines appropriate.
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1064 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







107th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1064

 To amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
  Liability Act of 1980 to provide certain relief from liability for 
                           small businesses.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             2001-06-19

Mr. Bond (for himself, Mr. Reid, Mr. Smith of New Hampshire, Mr. Kerry, 
  Mr. Warner, Mr. Chafee, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Cleland, Mr. Ensign, and Ms. 
   Landrieu) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Environment and Public Works

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
  Liability Act of 1980 to provide certain relief from liability for 
                           small businesses.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Small Business Liability Protection 
Act''.

SEC. 2. SMALL BUSINESS LIABILITY RELIEF.

    (a) Exemptions.--Section 107 of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9607) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(o) De Micromis Exemption.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), a 
        person shall not be liable, with respect to response costs at a 
        facility on the National Priorities List, under this Act if 
        liability is based solely on paragraph (3) or (4) of subsection 
        (a), and the person, except as provided in paragraph (4) of 
        this subsection, can demonstrate that--
                    ``(A) the total amount of the material containing 
                hazardous substances that the person arranged for 
                disposal or treatment of, arranged with a transporter 
                for transport for disposal or treatment of, or accepted 
                for transport for disposal or treatment, at the 
                facility was less than 110 gallons of liquid materials 
                or less than 200 pounds of solid materials (or such 
                greater or lesser amounts as the Administrator may 
                determine by regulation); and
                    ``(B) all or part of the disposal, treatment, or 
                transport concerned occurred before 01-04-2001.
            ``(2) Exceptions.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply in a case 
        in which--
                    ``(A) the President determines that--
                            ``(i) the materials containing hazardous 
                        substances referred to in paragraph (1) have 
                        contributed significantly or could contribute 
                        significantly, either individually or in the 
                        aggregate, to the cost of the response action 
                        or natural resource restoration with respect to 
                        the facility; or
                            ``(ii) the person has failed to comply with 
                        an information request or administrative 
                        subpoena issued by the President under this Act 
                        or has impeded or is impeding, through action 
                        or inaction, the performance of a response 
                        action or natural resource restoration with 
                        respect to the facility; or
                    ``(B) a person has been convicted of a criminal 
                violation for the conduct to which the exemption would 
                apply, and that conviction has not been vitiated on 
                appeal or otherwise.
            ``(3) No judicial review.--A determination by the President 
        under paragraph (2)(A) shall not be subject to judicial review.
            ``(4) Nongovernmental third-party contribution actions.--In 
        the case of a contribution action, with respect to response 
        costs at a facility on the National Priorities List, brought by 
        a party, other than a Federal, State, or local government, 
        under this Act, the burden of proof shall be on the party 
        bringing the action to demonstrate that the conditions 
        described in paragraph (1)(A) and (B) of this subsection are 
        not met.
    ``(p) Municipal Solid Waste Exemption.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2) of 
        this subsection, a person shall not be liable, with respect to 
        response costs at a facility on the National Priorities List, 
        under paragraph (3) of subsection (a) for municipal solid waste 
        disposed of at a facility if the person, except as provided in 
        paragraph (5) of this subsection, can demonstrate that the 
        person is--
                    ``(A) an owner, operator, or lessee of residential 
                property from which all of the person's municipal solid 
                waste was generated with respect to the facility;
                    ``(B) a business entity (including a parent, 
                subsidiary, or affiliate of the entity) that, during 
                its 3 taxable years preceding the date of transmittal 
of written notification from the President of its potential liability 
under this section, employed on average not more than 100 full-time 
individuals, or the equivalent thereof, and that is a small business 
concern (within the meaning of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et 
seq.)) from which was generated all of the municipal solid waste 
attributable to the entity with respect to the facility; or
                    ``(C) an organization described in section 
                501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and 
                exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code that, 
                during its taxable year preceding the date of 
                transmittal of written notification from the President 
                of its potential liability under this section, employed 
                not more than 100 paid individuals at the location from 
                which was generated all of the municipal solid waste 
                attributable to the organization with respect to the 
                facility.
        For purposes of this subsection, the term `affiliate' has the 
        meaning of that term provided in the definition of `small 
        business concern' in regulations promulgated by the Small 
        Business Administration in accordance with the Small Business 
        Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.).
            ``(2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply in a case 
        in which the President determines that--
                    ``(A) the municipal solid waste referred to in 
                paragraph (1) has contributed significantly or could 
                contribute significantly, either individually or in the 
                aggregate, to the cost of the response action or 
                natural resource restoration with respect to the 
                facility;
                    ``(B) the person has failed to comply with an 
                information request or administrative subpoena issued 
                by the President under this Act; or
                    ``(C) the person has impeded or is impeding, 
                through action or inaction, the performance of a 
                response action or natural resource restoration with 
                respect to the facility.
            ``(3) No judicial review.--A determination by the President 
        under paragraph (2) shall not be subject to judicial review.
            ``(4) Definition of municipal solid waste.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of this subsection, 
                the term `municipal solid waste' means waste material--
                            ``(i) generated by a household (including a 
                        single or multifamily residence); and
                            ``(ii) generated by a commercial, 
                        industrial, or institutional entity, to the 
                        extent that the waste material--
                                    ``(I) is essentially the same as 
                                waste normally generated by a 
                                household;
                                    ``(II) is collected and disposed of 
                                with other municipal solid waste as 
                                part of normal municipal solid waste 
                                collection services; and
                                    ``(III) contains a relative 
                                quantity of hazardous substances no 
                                greater than the relative quantity of 
                                hazardous substances contained in waste 
                                material generated by a typical single-
                                family household.
                    ``(B) Examples.--Examples of municipal solid waste 
                under subparagraph (A) include food and yard waste, 
                paper, clothing, appliances, consumer product 
                packaging, disposable diapers, office supplies, 
                cosmetics, glass and metal food containers, elementary 
                or secondary school science laboratory waste, and 
                household hazardous waste.
                    ``(C) Exclusions.--The term `municipal solid waste' 
                does not include--
                            ``(i) combustion ash generated by resource 
                        recovery facilities or municipal incinerators; 
                        or
                            ``(ii) waste material from manufacturing or 
                        processing operations (including pollution 
                        control operations) that is not essentially the 
                        same as waste normally generated by households.
            ``(5) Burden of proof.--In the case of an action, with 
        respect to response costs at a facility on the National 
        Priorities List, brought under section 107 or 113 by--
                    ``(A) a party, other than a Federal, State, or 
                local government, with respect to municipal solid waste 
                disposed of on or after 01-04-2001; or
                    ``(B) any party with respect to municipal solid 
                waste disposed of before 01-04-2001, the burden of 
proof shall be on the party bringing the action to demonstrate that the 
conditions described in paragraphs (1) and (4) for exemption for 
entities and organizations described in paragraph (1)(B) and (C) are 
not met.
            ``(6) Certain actions not permitted.--No contribution 
        action may be brought by a party, other than a Federal, State, 
        or local government, under this Act with respect to 
        circumstances described in paragraph (1)(A).
            ``(7) Costs and fees.--A nongovernmental entity that 
        commences, after the date of the enactment of this subsection, 
        a contribution action under this Act shall be liable to the 
        defendant for all reasonable costs of defending the action, 
        including all reasonable attorney's fees and expert witness 
        fees, if the defendant is not liable for contribution based on 
        an exemption under this subsection or subsection (o).''.
    (b) Expedited Settlement.--Section 122(g) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
9622(g)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(7) Reduction in settlement amount based on limited 
        ability to pay.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The condition for settlement 
                under this paragraph is that the potentially 
                responsible party is a person who demonstrates to the 
                President an inability or a limited ability to pay 
                response costs.
                    ``(B) Considerations.--In determining whether or 
                not a demonstration is made under subparagraph (A) by a 
                person, the President shall take into consideration the 
                ability of the person to pay response costs and still 
                maintain its basic business operations, including 
                consideration of the overall financial condition of the 
                person and demonstrable constraints on the ability of 
                the person to raise revenues.
                    ``(C) Information.--A person requesting settlement 
                under this paragraph shall promptly provide the 
                President with all relevant information needed to 
                determine the ability of the person to pay response 
                costs.
                    ``(D) Alternative payment methods.--If the 
                President determines that a person is unable to pay its 
                total settlement amount at the time of settlement, the 
                President shall consider such alternative payment 
                methods as may be necessary or appropriate.
            ``(8) Additional conditions for expedited settlements.--
                    ``(A) Waiver of claims.--The President shall 
                require, as a condition for settlement under this 
                subsection, that a potentially responsible party waive 
                all of the claims (including a claim for contribution 
                under this Act) that the party may have against other 
                potentially responsible parties for response costs 
                incurred with respect to the facility, unless the 
                President determines that requiring a waiver would be 
                unjust.
                    ``(B) Failure to comply.--The President may decline 
                to offer a settlement to a potentially responsible 
                party under this subsection if the President determines 
                that the potentially responsible party has failed to 
                comply with any request for access or information or an 
                administrative subpoena issued by the President under 
                this Act or has impeded or is impeding, through action 
                or inaction, the performance of a response action with 
                respect to the facility.
                    ``(C) Responsibility to provide information and 
                access.--A potentially responsible party that enters 
                into a settlement under this subsection shall not be 
                relieved of the responsibility to provide any 
                information or access requested in accordance with 
                subsection (e)(3)(B) or section 104(e).
            ``(9) Basis of determination.--If the President determines 
        that a potentially responsible party is not eligible for 
        settlement under this subsection, the President shall provide 
        the reasons for the determination in writing to the potentially 
        responsible party that requested a settlement under this 
        subsection.
            ``(10) Notification.--As soon as practicable after receipt 
        of sufficient information to make a determination, the 
        President shall notify any person that the President determines 
        is eligible under paragraph (1) of the person's eligibility for 
        an expedited settlement.
            ``(11) No judicial review.--A determination by the 
        President under paragraph (7), (8), (9), or (10) shall not be 
        subject to judicial review.
            ``(12) Notice of settlement.--After a settlement under this 
        subsection becomes final with respect to a facility, the 
        President shall promptly notify potentially responsible parties 
        at the facility that have not resolved their liability to the 
        United States of the settlement.''.

SEC. 3. EFFECT ON CONCLUDED ACTIONS.

    The amendments made by this Act shall not apply to or in any way 
affect any settlement lodged in, or judgment issued by, a United States 
District Court, or any administrative settlement or order entered into 
or issued by the United States or any State, before the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1784 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







106th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1784

     Entitled the ``Saint Helena Island National Scenic Area Act''.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            1999.10.25

Mr. Abraham (for himself and Mr. Levin) introduced the following bill; 
   which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     Entitled the ``Saint Helena Island National Scenic Area Act''.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Saint Helena Island National Scenic 
Area Act''.

SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF SAINT HELENA ISLAND NATIONAL SCENIC AREA, 
              MICHIGAN.

    (a) Purpose.--The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to preserve and protect for present and future 
        generations the outstanding resources and values of Saint 
        Helena Island in Lake Michigan, Michigan; and
            (2) to provide for the conservation, protection, and 
        enhancement of primitive recreation opportunities, fish and 
        wildlife habitat, vegetation, and historical and cultural 
        resources of the island.
    (b) Establishment.--For the purposes described in subsection (a), 
there shall be established the Saint Helena Island National Scenic Area 
(in this Act referred to as the ``scenic area'').
    (c) Effective Upon Conveyance.--Subsection (b) shall be effective 
upon conveyance of satisfactory title to the United States of the whole 
of Saint Helena Island, except that portion conveyed to the Great Lakes 
Lighthouse Keepers Association pursuant to section 1001 of the Coast 
Guard Authorization Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-324; 110 Stat. 3948).

SEC. 3. BOUNDARIES.

    (a) Saint Helena Island.--The scenic area shall comprise all of 
Saint Helena Island, in Lake Michigan, Michigan, and all associated 
rocks, pinnacles, islands, and islets within one-eighth mile of the 
shore of Saint Helena Island.
    (b) Boundaries of Hiawatha National Forest Extended.--Upon 
establishment of the scenic area, the boundaries of the Hiawatha 
National Forest shall be extended to include all of the lands within 
the scenic area. All such extended boundaries shall be deemed 
boundaries in existence as of January 1, 1965, for the purposes of 
section 8 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 
U.S.C. 460l-9).
    (c) Payments to Local Governments.--Solely for purposes of payments 
to local governments pursuant to section 6902 of title 31, United 
States Code, lands acquired by the United States under this Act shall 
be treated as entitlement lands.

SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Administration.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
Secretary of Agriculture (in this Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') 
shall administer the scenic area in accordance with the laws, rules, 
and regulations applicable to the National Forest System in furtherance 
of the purposes of this Act.
    (b) Special Management Requirements.--Within 3 years of the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall seek to develop a 
management plan for the scenic area as an amendment to the land and 
resources management plan for the Hiawatha National Forest. Such an 
amendment shall conform to the provisions of this Act. Nothing in this 
Act shall require the Secretary to revise the land and resource 
management plan for the Hiawatha National Forest pursuant to section 6 
of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 
(16 U.S.C. 1604). In developing a plan for management of the scenic 
area, the Secretary shall address the following special management 
considerations:
            (1) Public access.--Alternative means for providing public 
        access from the mainland to the scenic area shall be 
        considered, including any available existing services and 
        facilities, concessionaires, special use permits, or other 
        means of making public access available for the purposes of 
        this Act.
            (2) Roads.--After the date of the enactment of this Act, no 
        new permanent roads shall be constructed within the scenic 
        area.
            (3) Vegetation management.--No timber harvest shall be 
        allowed within the scenic area, except as may be necessary in 
        the control of fire, insects, and diseases, and to provide for 
public safety and trail access. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the 
Secretary may engage in vegetation manipulation practices for 
maintenance of wildlife habitat and visual quality. Trees cut for these 
purposes may be utilized, salvaged, or removed from the scenic area as 
authorized by the Secretary.
            (4) Motorized travel.--Motorized travel shall not be 
        permitted within the scenic area, except on the waters of Lake 
        Michigan, and as necessary for administrative use in 
        furtherance of the purposes of this Act.
            (5) Fire.--Wildfires shall be suppressed in a manner 
        consistent with the purposes of this Act, using such means as 
        the Secretary deems appropriate.
            (6) Insects and disease.--Insect and disease outbreaks may 
        be controlled in the scenic area to maintain scenic quality, 
        prevent tree mortality, or to reduce hazards to visitors.
            (7) Dockage.--The Secretary shall provide through 
        concession, permit, or other means docking facilities 
        consistent with the management plan developed pursuant to this 
        section.
            (8) Safety.--The Secretary shall take reasonable actions to 
        provide for public health and safety and for the protection of 
        the scenic area in the event of fire or infestation of insects 
        or disease.
    (c) Consultation.--In preparing the management plan, the Secretary 
shall consult with appropriate State and local government officials, 
provide for full public participation, and consider the views of all 
interested parties, organizations, and individuals.

SEC. 5. FISH AND GAME.

    Nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting the 
jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State of Michigan with respect 
to fish and in the scenic area.

SEC. 6. MINERALS.

    Subject to valid existing rights, the lands within the scenic area 
are hereby withdrawn from disposition under all laws pertaining to 
mineral leasing, including all laws pertaining to geothermal leasing. 
Also subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall not allow 
any mineral development on federally owned land within the scenic area, 
except that common varieties of minerals materials, such as stone and 
gravel, may be utilized only as authorized by the Secretary to the 
extent necessary for construction and maintenance of roads and 
facilities within the scenic area.

SEC. 7. ACQUISITION

    (a) Acquisition of Lands Within the Scenic Area.--The Secretary 
shall acquire, by purchase from willing sellers, gift, or exchange, 
lands, waters, structures, or interests therein, including scenic or 
other easements, within the boundaries of the scenic area to further 
the purposes of this Act.
    (b) Acquisition of Other Lands.--The Secretary may acquire, by 
purchase from willing sellers, gift, or exchange, not more than 10 
acres of land, including any improvements thereon, on the mainland to 
provide access to any administrative facilities for the scenic area.

SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Acquisition of Lands.--There are hereby authorized to be 
appropriated such sums a may be necessary for the acquisition of land, 
interests in land, or structures within the scenic area and on the 
mainland as provided in section 7.
    (b) Other Purposes.--In addition to the amounts authorized to be 
appropriated under subsection (a), there are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary for the development and 
implementation of the management plan under section 4(b).
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 437 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 437

    To improve Indian reservation roads and related transportation 
                   services, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             13.03.1997

 Mr. Domenici (for himself, Mr. Inouye, Mr. Campbell, Mr. Johnson, Mr. 
  Murkowski, Mr. Stevens, and Mr. Bingaman) introduced the following 
  bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Indian 
                                Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To improve Indian reservation roads and related transportation 
                   services, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``American Indian Transportation 
Improvement Act of 1997''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) the Federal Government has a responsibility to promote 
        the general welfare of the United States by supporting 
        interstate, national, and international commerce through the 
        use of Federal resources to assist States, Indian tribes, and 
        local governments in the development and maintenance of 
        physical infrastructure, including roads, highways, byways, 
        bridges, and other transportation-related structures;
            (2) there exists a unique legal and political relationship 
        between the United States and tribal governments and a unique 
        Federal responsibility to American Indians and Alaska Natives;
            (3) under law and practice, the United States has 
        undertaken a trust responsibility to protect and preserve 
        Indian tribes, Indians, and tribal assets and resources;
            (4) this Federal responsibility includes working with 
        tribal governments and their members to improve the condition 
        of the physical infrastructure used by tribes for their 
        economic well-being;
            (5) the demonstrated need for improvements to physical 
        infrastructure on Indian land is acute, and the Federal 
        Government should assist in making the improvements and in 
        developing tribal and private mechanisms to achieve the goals 
        of economic self-sufficiency and political self-determination;
            (6)(A) Indian tribes of the United States are served by 
        over 50,000 miles of roads nationwide;
            (B) the road system of the Bureau of Indian Affairs 
        constitutes about 21,000 miles, or 42 percent, of roads serving 
        Indian tribes;
            (C) State and county roads make up the largest percentage, 
        about 49 percent, of roads serving Indian tribes; and
            (D) tribal roads account for approximately 5 percent, and 
        private and Federal roads (other than Bureau of Indian Affairs 
        roads) make up the small balance of approximately 4 percent, of 
        roads serving Indian tribes;
            (7)(A) the Indian reservation roads program established 
        under the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 
        1991 (Public Law 102-240) is targeted at the Bureau of Indian 
        Affairs road system that constitutes less than \1/2\ of the 
        total mileage of roads on Indian reservations in the United 
        States;
            (B) only 11 percent of the Bureau of Indian Affairs roads 
        are rated as being in good condition; and
            (C) of the unpaved Bureau of Indian Affairs roads, 90 
        percent are known to be in poor condition and none of the 
        unpaved roads are rated as being in good condition;
            (8)(A) annual funding of the Indian reservation roads 
        program, through the Highway Trust Fund, as authorized by the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991, has become 
the major source of funding for new road construction on Indian land in 
the United States;
            (B) the Bureau of Indian Affairs road construction budget 
        has virtually vanished; and
            (C) the Bureau of Indian Affairs continues to provide 
        minimal funding of about $25,000,000 per fiscal year for road 
        maintenance of its road system;
            (9)(A) in the late 1950's, Bureau of Indian Affairs road 
        construction and maintenance funding reached a high of 
        $10,000,000 per fiscal year for the first time in history;
            (B) by 1979, Bureau of Indian Affairs road budgets for 
        construction and maintenance reached their peak of almost 
        $80,000,000 per fiscal year, and then declined rapidly;
            (C) in the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 
        (Public Law 97-424), the funding levels for the Indian 
        reservation roads program stabilized at about $100,000,000 
        through the Highway Trust Fund for each of fiscal years 1984 
        through 1986;
            (D) the Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation 
        Assistance Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-17) reduced the annual 
        Highway Trust Fund authorization to $80,000,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 1987 through 1991; and
            (E) in almost every fiscal year since fiscal year 1992, the 
        Indian reservation roads program has been funded at 
        $191,000,000 per fiscal year;
            (10)(A) Indian reservation roads are needed to support 
        economic development activities, education, health, and 
        virtually every aspect of reservation life; and
            (B) some of the most scenic highways in the United States 
        are on Indian reservations;
            (11)(A) at current and historic levels of funding, Indian 
        road conditions continue to fall behind national standards; and
            (B) to help alleviate some of the poor transportation 
        conditions on Indian reservations in the United States, there 
        is a need to increase the level of funding, from the Highway 
        Trust Fund, for the Indian reservation roads program to 
        $300,000,000 per fiscal year, from the current level of 
        $191,000,000 per fiscal year; and
            (12) Federal assistance described in this section should be 
        provided in a manner that recognizes the rights of Indian self-
        determination and self-governance by providing the assistance, 
        to the maximum extent practicable, directly to Indian tribal 
        governments.

SEC. 3. INDIAN RESERVATION ROADS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1003(a)(6)(A) of the Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-240; 105 Stat. 
1919) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``1992 and'' and inserting ``1992,''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``, $250,000,000 for fiscal year 1998, $275,000,000 
        for fiscal year 1999, and $300,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
        2000 through 2002''.
    (b) Mass Transportation Services.--Section 1032(d) of the 
Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (23 U.S.C. 202 
note; 105 Stat. 1975) is amended by inserting before the period at the 
end the following: ``and not more than 3 percent of the funds allocated 
for Indian reservation roads for a fiscal year may be used for 
providing mass transportation services to Indian tribes''.
    (c) Maintenance.--Section 204(b) of title 23, United States Code, 
is amended in the second sentence by inserting before the period at the 
end the following: ``and, in the case of Indian reservation roads, 
maintenance thereof''.

SEC. 4. APPORTIONMENT ADJUSTMENTS.

    Section 1015 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency 
Act of 1991 (23 U.S.C. 104 note; 105 Stat. 1943) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``1997'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``2002''; and
            (2) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting after ``Federal 
        lands highways program'' the following: ``(other than funds for 
        a public land highway constructed on an Indian reservation)''.

SEC. 5. SCENIC BYWAYS PROGRAM.

    Section 1047 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency 
Act of 1991 (23 U.S.C. 101 note; 105 Stat. 1996) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by inserting ``and Indian tribes'' after ``the 
                States'' each place it appears;
                    (B) by striking ``term is'' and inserting ``terms 
                are''; and
                    (C) by inserting ``or Indian tribe'' after 
                ``State'';
            (2) in subsection (c), by inserting ``or Indian tribe'' 
        after ``State''; and
            (3) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in the first sentence--
                            (i) by striking ``There'' and inserting the 
                        following:
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), there''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``1995, 1996, and 1997'' 
                        and inserting ``1995 through 2002''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Indian tribes.--Not less than 1 percent of the funds 
        made available to the Secretary for a fiscal year under 
        paragraph (1) shall be used by the Secretary to make 
        competitive grants to Indian tribes for the planning, design, 
        and development of Indian tribe scenic byway programs.''.

SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 101(a) of title 23, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting after the undesignated paragraph defining ``Indian 
reservation roads'' the following:
    ``The term `Indian tribal transportation department' means the 
department, commission, board, or member of an Indian tribe that is 
charged by its laws with the responsibility for highway construction.
    ``The term `Indian tribe' has the meaning given the term in section 
4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
U.S.C. 450b).''.

SEC. 7. CERTIFICATION ACCEPTANCE.

    Section 117(a) of title 23, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``or Indian tribe'' after ``any State'' 
        each place it appears;
            (2) by inserting ``or Indian tribal transportation 
        department'' after ``State highway department''; and
            (3) by inserting ``or tribal'' after ``with State''.

SEC. 8. TRANSPORTATION ENHANCEMENT ACTIVITIES.

    Section 133(d)(2) of title 23, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``10 percent'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), 10 
                percent''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Indian tribes.--Not less than 1 percent of 
                the funds made available to a State for a fiscal year 
under subparagraph (A) shall be transferred to, and used by, the 
Secretary to make competitive grants to Indian tribes for 
transportation enhancement activities.''.

SEC. 9. INDIAN RESERVATION BRIDGES.

    Section 144(g) of title 23, United States Code, is amended by 
striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
            ``(4) Indian reservation bridges.--Notwithstanding 
        subsection (e), an amount equal to 1 percent of the highway 
        bridge replacement and rehabilitation program funds available 
        to be apportioned to States under this section shall be 
        allocated to the Secretary for projects to replace, 
        rehabilitate, paint, or apply calcium magnesium acetate to 
        highway bridges that are part of the Indian reservation road 
        system, with priority given to bridges with the highest level 
        of deficiency (as determined in accordance with the National 
        Bridge Inspection Standards of the Bureau of Indian 
        Affairs).''.

SEC. 10. INDIAN TECHNICAL CENTERS.

    Section 326(c) of title 23, United States Code, is amended in the 
second sentence--
            (1) by striking ``$6,000,000 per fiscal year for each of 
        the fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997'' and 
        inserting ``$10,800,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 through 
        2002''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``and including at least $1,000,000 per fiscal year 
        for each of the Indian technical centers established under 
        subsection (b)''.

SEC. 11. HIGHWAY SAFETY PROGRAMS.

    Section 402(i) of title 23, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and `political subdivision of a State' 
        includes'' and inserting ``and''; and
            (2) in the first proviso, by striking ``to the Secretary of 
        the Interior'' and inserting ``for Indian tribes''.

SEC. 12. MASS TRANSIT SET-ASIDE.

    Section 5338(h) of title 49, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) not less than 1.0 percent is available for 
        transportation services to Indian tribes--
                    ``(A) under an allocation formula, which shall be 
                established by the Secretary of Transportation through 
                negotiations with Indian tribes; and
                    ``(B) with respect to any fiscal year commencing 
                before the formula is established under subparagraph 
                (A), under an allocation formula established by the 
                Administrator of the Federal Transit Administration of 
                the Department of Transportation.''.
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 104th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 573 Referral Instructions Senate (RIS)]







104th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 573

    To reduce spending in fiscal year 1996, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             Mar 16, 1995

   Mr. Pryor introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
   referred jointly pursuant to the order of 04-08-1977, to the 
 Committees on the Budget and Governmental Affairs, with instructions 
that if one committee reports, the other committee have thirty days to 
                        report or be discharged

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To reduce spending in fiscal year 1996, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Spending Reductions Act of 1995''.

SEC. 2. SERVICE CONTRACTS.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not more than 
$100,000,000,000 shall be available for service contracts in fiscal 
year 1996.

SEC. 3. FEDERALLY FUNDED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CENTERS.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not more than 
$1,000,000,000 shall be available for federally funded research and 
development centers at the Department of Defense in fiscal year 1996.

SEC. 4. FOREIGN MILITARY FINANCING.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not more than 
$3,000,000,000 shall be available for the foreign military financing 
program in fiscal year 1996.

SEC. 5. WORLD BANK FUNDING.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in fiscal year 1996--
            (1) not more than $1,000,000,000 shall be available for the 
        International Development Association; and
            (2) not more than $58,000,000 shall be available for the 
        International Finance Corporation.

SEC. 6. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE HUMANITARIAN AND CIVIC ASSISTANCE 
              PROGRAMS.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not more than 
$25,000,000 shall be available for humanitarian assistance in fiscal 
year 1996.
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 520 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

103d CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 520

To prohibit the expenditure of appropriated funds on the Advanced Solid 
                         Rocket Motor program.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                March 5 (legislative day, March 3), 1993

Mr. Bumpers (for himself and Mr. Cohen) introduced the following bill; 
  which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To prohibit the expenditure of appropriated funds on the Advanced Solid 
                         Rocket Motor program.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Deficit Reduction Through Advanced 
Solid Rocket Motor Termination Act of 1993''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) the Federal budget deficit has grown to such an extent 
        that it poses a serious short-, medium-, and long-term threat 
        to the health of the United States economy;
            (2) the gross interest costs on the National debt now 
        exceed defense expenditures in the Federal budget and are one 
        of the fastest-growing components in the Federal budget;
            (3) the American people are demanding serious and 
        fundamental changes in the Federal Government's management of 
        spending priorities and overall fiscal stewardship;
            (4) Federal Government programs that are not absolutely 
        necessary to the health and well-being of the American people 
        must be closely scrutinized for possible funding reduction or 
        elimination;
            (5) the Advanced Solid Rocket Motor (hereafter in this Act 
        referred to as the ``ASRM'') program has not been sought by the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration (hereafter in 
        this Act referred to as ``NASA'');
            (6) the National Research Council and the Aerospace Safety 
        Advisory Panel have concluded that the ASRM program involves 
        high technical and programmatic risks and should be 
        reconsidered;
            (7) the cost estimates of the ASRM program have doubled in 
        the past 5 years, and the program has fallen more than 4 years 
        behind schedule; and
            (8) termination of the ASRM program could save the Federal 
        Government several billion dollars.

SEC. 3. TERMINATION OF THE ADVANCED SOLID ROCKET MOTOR PROGRAM.

    (a) Prohibition.--Effective 90 days after the date of enactment of 
this section, no appropriated funds shall be available for use on the 
ASRM program.
    (b) Exception.--Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), 
not to exceed $50,000,000 of such funds referred to in subsection (c) 
may be used in terminating the ASRM program.
    (c) Unexpended Funds.--Any funds appropriated for use on the ASRM 
program that remain unobligated and unexpended 90 days after the date 
of enactment of this section shall be credited to the general revenues 
of the United States Treasury.

                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1655 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1655

   To require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to approve 
   waivers under the Medicaid Program under title XIX of the Social 
   Security Act that are related to State provider taxes that exempt 
                    certain retirement communities.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            06/11/2013

  Mr. Boozman introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
                  referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To require the Secretary of Health and Human Services to approve 
   waivers under the Medicaid Program under title XIX of the Social 
   Security Act that are related to State provider taxes that exempt 
                    certain retirement communities.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Provider Tax Administrative 
Simplification Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. PROVIDER TAX RULE EXEMPTION FOR CERTAIN CONTINUING CARE 
              RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES.

    In the case of a State that has a provider tax that does not apply 
to continuing care retirement communities or life care communities (as 
such terms are used for purposes of section 1917(g) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396p(g)) that have no beds that are certified 
to provide medical assistance (as such term is defined under section 
1905(a) of such Act) under title XIX of the Social Security Act or that 
do not provide services for which payment may be made under title XIX 
of the Social Security Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
shall approve a waiver under section 433.68(e)(2)(iii) of title 42 of 
the Code of Federal Regulations regardless of whether the Secretary 
determines that the State satisfies the requirements of section 
433.68(e)(2)(iii)(B) of such title.
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 271 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.271

                      One Hundred Twelfth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
            the third day of January, two thousand and twelve


                                 An Act


 
    To require the Secretary of Agriculture to enter into a property 
  conveyance with the city of Wallowa, Oregon, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Wallowa Forest Service Compound 
Conveyance Act''.
SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE TO CITY OF WALLOWA, OREGON.
    (a) Definitions.--In this Act:
        (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Wallowa, Oregon.
        (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    Agriculture.
        (3) Wallowa forest service compound.--The term ``Wallowa Forest 
    Service Compound'' means the approximately 1.11 acres of National 
    Forest System land that--
            (A) was donated by the City to the Forest Service on March 
        18, 1936; and
            (B) is located at 602 First Street, Wallowa, Oregon.
    (b) Conveyance.--On the request of the City submitted to the 
Secretary by the date that is not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act and subject to the provisions of this Act, the 
Secretary shall convey to the City all right, title, and interest of 
the United States in and to the Wallowa Forest Service Compound.
    (c) Conditions.--The conveyance under subsection (b) shall be--
        (1) by quitclaim deed;
        (2) for no consideration; and
        (3) subject to--
            (A) valid existing rights; and
            (B) such terms and conditions as the Secretary may require.
    (d) Use of Wallowa Forest Service Compound.--As a condition of the 
conveyance under subsection (b), the City shall--
        (1) use the Wallowa Forest Service Compound as a historical and 
    cultural interpretation and education center;
        (2) ensure that the Wallowa Forest Service Compound is managed 
    by a nonprofit entity;
        (3) agree to manage the Wallowa Forest Service Compound with 
    due consideration and protection for the historic values of the 
    Wallowa Forest Service Compound; and
        (4) pay the reasonable administrative costs associated with the 
    conveyance.
    (e) Reversion.--In the quitclaim deed to the City, the Secretary 
shall provide that the Wallowa Forest Service Compound shall revert to 
the Secretary, at the election of the Secretary, if any of the 
conditions under subsection (c) or (d) are violated.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.









[Congressional Bills 111th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 272 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

111th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 272

  To amend the Commodity Exchange Act to ensure that all agreements, 
contracts, and transactions with respect to commodities are carried out 
            on a regulated exchange, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            2009-01-15

  Mr. Harkin introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
   referred to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend the Commodity Exchange Act to ensure that all agreements, 
contracts, and transactions with respect to commodities are carried out 
            on a regulated exchange, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Derivatives Trading Integrity Act of 
2009''.

SEC. 2. REGULATION OF CERTAIN AGREEMENTS, CONTRACTS, AND TRANSACTIONS.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 
U.S.C. 1a) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraphs (10), (11), (13), (14), and 
        (33); and
            (2) by redesignating--
                    (A) paragraph (12) as paragraph (10);
                    (B) paragraphs (15) through (32) as paragraphs (11) 
                through (28), respectively; and
                    (C) paragraph (34) as paragraph (29).
    (b) Exclusions.--Section 2 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
2) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsections (d), (e), (g), (h), and (i); 
        and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (d).
    (c) Restriction of Futures Trading to Contract Markets or 
Derivatives Transaction Execution Facilities.--Section 4 of the 
Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``Unless exempted by the Commission pursuant 
        to subsection (c), it shall'' and inserting ``It shall'';
            (2) by striking subsection (c); and
            (3) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
    (d) Exempt Boards of Trade.--Section 5d of the Commodity Exchange 
Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-3) is repealed.

SEC. 3. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a) (as 
amended by section 2(a)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (10)(A)(x), by striking ``(other than an 
        electronic trading facility with respect to a significant price 
        discovery contract)'';
            (2) in paragraph (25)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``and'' after 
                the semicolon at the end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (E); and
            (3) in paragraph (27), by striking ``section 2(c), 2(d), 
        2(f), or 2(g) of this Act'' and inserting ``subsection (c) or 
        (d) of section 2''.
    (b) Section 2(c) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``5d,''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``in an 
                excluded commodity''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)(B)(i)(II)--
                    (A) in item (cc), by striking ``section 1a(20) of 
                this Act'' each place it appears and inserting 
                ``section 1a(16)''; and
                    (B) in item (dd), by striking ``section 
                1a(12)(A)(ii) of this Act'' and inserting ``section 
                1a(10)(A)(ii)''.
    (c) Section 4a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6a) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``or on 
                electronic trading facilities with respect to a 
                significant price discovery contract''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``or on an 
                electronic trading facility with respect to a 
                significant price discovery contract,'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or electronic 
                trading facility with respect to a significant price 
                discovery contract''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding the 
                proviso, by striking ``or electronic trading facility 
                with respect to a significant price discovery 
                contract''; and
            (3) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in the first sentence--
                            (i) in the matter preceding the proviso--
                                    (I) by striking ``or by any 
                                electronic trading facility'';
                                    (II) by striking ``or on an 
                                electronic trading facility''; and
                                    (III) by striking ``or electronic 
                                trading facility''; and
                            (ii) in the proviso, by striking ``or 
                        electronic trading facility''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, in the matter preceding 
                the proviso, by striking ``or electronic trading 
                facility with respect to a significant price discovery 
                contract''.
    (d) Section 4g(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6g(a)) is 
amended by striking ``and in any significant price discovery contract 
traded or executed on an electronic trading facility or''.
    (e) Section 4i of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 6i) is 
amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``or 
        any significant price discovery contract traded or executed on 
        an electronic trading facility''; and
            (2) in the matter following paragraph (2), by striking ``or 
        electronic trading facility''.
    (f) Section 5a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (D)(ii), by inserting ``or'' 
                after the semicolon at the end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``; or'' and 
                inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (F); and
            (2) in subsection (g)--
                    (A) in the heading, by striking ``Election To Trade 
                Excluded and Exempt Commodities'' and inserting 
                ``Excluded Securities''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``excluded or exempt 
                        commodities other than'' and inserting 
                        ``commodities other than an agricultural 
                        commodity enumerated in section 1a(4) or''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``, 2(d), or 2(g) of this 
                        Act, or exempt under section 2(h) of this 
                        Act''.
    (g) Section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``section 
        2(a)(1)(C)(i), 2(c), 2(d), 2(f), or 2(g) of this Act or title 
        IV of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, or 
        exempted under section 2(h) or 4(c) of this Act'' and inserting 
        ``subsection (a)(1)(C)(i), (c), or (d) of section 2 or title IV 
        of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000 (Public Law 
        106-554; 114 Stat. 2763A457)''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``section 2(c), 2(d), 
        2(f), or 2(g) of this Act or title IV of the Commodity Futures 
        Modernization Act of 2000, or exempted under section 2(h) or 
        4(c) of this Act'' and inserting ``subsection (c) or (d) of 
        section 2 or title IV of the Commodity Futures Modernization 
        Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-554; 114 Stat. 2763A457)''.
    (h) Section 5c of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-2) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``and section 2(h)(7) 
        with respect to significant price discovery contracts,'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``, derivatives 
                transaction execution facility, or electronic trading 
                facility with respect to a significant price discovery 
                contract'' and inserting ``or derivatives transaction 
                execution facility''; and
                    (B) in paragraphs (2) and (3), by striking ``, 
                derivatives transaction execution facility, or 
                electronic trading facility'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``or derivatives transaction execution 
                facility''; and
            (3) in subsection (d)(1), in the matter preceding 
        subparagraph (A), by striking ``or 2(h)(7)(C) with respect to a 
        significant price discovery contract traded or executed on an 
        electronic trading facility,''.
    (i) Section 5e of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7b) is 
amended by striking ``or revocation of the right of an electronic 
trading facility to rely on the exemption set forth in section 2(h)(3) 
with respect to a significant price discovery contract,''.
    (j) Section 5f(b)(1) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7b-
1(b)(1)) is amended in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
striking ``section 5f'' and inserting ``this section''.
    (k) Section 6(b) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 8(b)) is 
amended--
            (1) in the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``or to revoke the right of an 
                electronic trading facility to rely on the exemption 
                set forth in section 2(h)(3) with respect to a 
                significant price discovery contract,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``or electronic trading facility''; 
                and
            (2) in the second sentence, in the matter preceding the 
        proviso, by striking ``or electronic trading facility''.
    (l) Section 12(e) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 16(e)) is 
amended by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Effect.--This Act supersedes and preempts the 
        application of any State or local law that prohibits or 
        regulates gaming or the operation of bucket shops (other than 
        antifraud provisions of general applicability) in the case of 
        an agreement, contract, or transaction that is excluded from 
        this Act under--
                    ``(A) subsection (c) or (d) of section 2; or
                    ``(B) title IV of the Commodity Futures 
                Modernization Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-554; 114 
                Stat. 2763A457).''.
    (m) Section 15(b) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 19(b)) is 
amended by striking ``4(c) or''.
    (n) Section 22(b)(1)(A) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
25(b)(1)(A)) is amended by striking ``by section 2(h)(7) or sections 5 
through 5c'' and inserting ``under sections 5 through 5c''.
    (o) Section 13106(b)(1) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act 
of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2 note; Public Law 110-246) is amended by striking 
``section 1a(32)'' and inserting ``section 1a''.
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 60 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 60

To amend the Public Health Service Act to provide a means for continued 
        improvement in emergency medical services for children.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            04-01-2007

  Mr. Reid (for Mr. Inouye) (for himself, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. 
Conrad, Mr. Dorgan, and Mr. Akaka) introduced the following bill; which 
  was read twice and referred to the Committee on Health, Education, 
                          Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Public Health Service Act to provide a means for continued 
        improvement in emergency medical services for children.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Wakefield Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) There are 31,000,000 child and adolescent visits to the 
        nation's emergency departments every year.
            (2) Over 90 percent of children requiring emergency care 
        are seen in general hospitals, not in free-standing children's 
        hospitals, with one-quarter to one-third of the patients being 
        children in the typical general hospital emergency department.
            (3) Severe asthma and respiratory distress are the most 
        common emergencies for pediatric patients, representing nearly 
        one-third of all hospitalizations among children under the age 
        of 15 years, while seizures, shock, and airway obstruction are 
        other common pediatric emergencies, followed by cardiac arrest 
        and severe trauma.
            (4) Up to 20 percent of children needing emergency care 
        have underlying medical conditions such as asthma, diabetes, 
        sickle-cell disease, low birthweight, and bronchopulmonary 
        dysplasia.
            (5) Significant gaps remain in emergency medical care 
        delivered to children. Only about 6 percent of hospitals have 
        available all the pediatric supplies deemed essential by the 
        American Academy of Pediatricians and the American College of 
        Emergency Physicians for managing pediatric emergencies while 
        about half of hospitals have at least 85 percent of those 
        supplies.
            (6) Providers must be educated and trained to manage 
        children's unique physical and psychological needs in emergency 
        situations, and emergency systems must be equipped with the 
        resources needed to care for this especially vulnerable 
        population.
            (7) Systems of care must be continually maintained, 
        updated, and improved to ensure that research is translated 
        into practice, best practices are adopted, training is current, 
        and standards and protocols are appropriate.
            (8) The Emergency Medical Services for Children (EMSC) 
        Program under section 1910 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
        U.S.C. 300w-9) is the only Federal program that focuses 
        specifically on improving the pediatric components of emergency 
        medical care.
            (9) The EMSC Program promotes the nationwide exchange of 
        pediatric emergency medical care knowledge and collaboration by 
        those with an interest in such care and is depended upon by 
        Federal agencies and national organizations to ensure that this 
        exchange of knowledge and collaboration takes place.
            (10) The EMSC Program also supports a multi-institutional 
        network for research in pediatric emergency medicine, thus 
        allowing providers to rely on evidence rather than anecdotal 
        experience when treating ill or injured children.
            (11) The Institute of Medicine stated in its 2006 report, 
        ``Emergency Care for Children: Growing Pains'', that the EMSC 
        Program ``boasts many accomplishments . . . and the work of the 
        program continues to be relevant and vital''.
            (12) The EMSC Program has proven effective over 2 decades 
        in driving key improvements in emergency medical services to 
        children, and should continue its mission to reduce child and 
        youth morbidity and mortality by supporting improvements in the 
        quality of all emergency medical and emergency surgical care 
        children receive.
    (b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this Act to reduce child and 
youth morbidity and mortality by supporting improvements in the quality 
of all emergency medical care children receive.

SEC. 3. REAUTHORIZATION OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES FOR CHILDREN 
              PROGRAM.

    Section 1910 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300w-9) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``3-year period (with an 
        optional 4th year'' and inserting ``4-year period (with an 
        optional 5th year'';
            (2) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) by striking ``and such sums'' and inserting 
                ``such sums''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period the following: 
                ``$25,000,000 for fiscal year 2008, and such sums as 
                may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2009 through 
                2011'';
            (3) by redesignating subsections (b) through (d) as 
        subsections (c) through (e), respectively; and
            (4) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b)(1) The purpose of the program established under this section 
is to reduce child and youth morbidity and mortality by supporting 
improvements in the quality of all emergency medical care children 
receive, through the promotion of projects focused on the expansion and 
improvement of such services, including those in rural areas and those 
for children with special healthcare needs. In carrying out this 
purpose, the Secretary shall support emergency medical services for 
children by supporting projects that--
            ``(A) develop and present scientific evidence;
            ``(B) promote existing and innovative technologies 
        appropriate for the care of children; or
            ``(C) provide information on health outcomes and 
        effectiveness and cost-effectiveness.
    ``(2) The program established under this section shall--
            ``(A) strive to enhance the pediatric capability of 
        emergency medical service systems originally designed primarily 
        for adults; and
            ``(B) in order to avoid duplication and ensure that Federal 
        resources are used efficiently and effectively, be coordinated 
        with all research, evaluations, and awards related to emergency 
        medical services for children undertaken and supported by the 
        Federal Government.''.
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 441 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







109th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 441

   To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to make permanent the 
         classification of a motorsports entertainment complex.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           17-02-2005

 Mr. Santorum (for himself, Mr. Nelson of Florida, Mr. Kyl, Mr. Allen, 
  Mr. Bunning, Mrs. Dole, and Mr. Chambliss) introduced the following 
  bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to make permanent the 
         classification of a motorsports entertainment complex.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Motorsports Fairness and Permanency 
Act of 2005''.

SEC. 2. 7-YEAR CLASS LIFE FOR MOTORSPORTS ENTERTAINMENT COMPLEX 
              FACILITIES MADE PERMANENT.

    Paragraph (15) of section 168(i) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (relating to motorsports entertainment complex) is amended by 
striking subparagraph (D).
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 108th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1451 Engrossed in Senate (ES)]

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
108th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1451

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To reauthorize programs under the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act and 
     the Missing Children's Assistance Act, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Runaway, Homeless, and Missing 
Children Protection Act''.

         TITLE I--AMENDMENTS TO RUNAWAY AND HOMELESS YOUTH ACT

SEC. 101. AMENDMENT TO FINDINGS.

    Section 302 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701) 
is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 302. FINDINGS.

    ``The Congress finds that--
            ``(1) youth who have become homeless or who leave and 
        remain away from home without parental permission, are at risk 
        of developing, and have a disproportionate share of, serious 
        health, behavioral, and emotional problems because they lack 
        sufficient resources to obtain care and may live on the street 
        for extended periods thereby endangering themselves and 
        creating a substantial law enforcement problem for communities 
        in which they congregate;
            ``(2) many such young people, because of their age and 
        situation, are urgently in need of temporary shelter and 
        services, including services that are linguistically 
        appropriate and acknowledge the environment of youth seeking 
        these services;
            ``(3) in view of the interstate nature of the problem, it 
        is the responsibility of the Federal Government to develop an 
        accurate national reporting system to report the problem, and 
        to assist in the development of an effective system of care 
        (including preventive and aftercare services, emergency shelter 
        services, extended residential shelter, and street outreach 
        services) outside the welfare system and the law enforcement 
        system;
            ``(4) to make a successful transition to adulthood, runaway 
        youth, homeless youth, and other street youth need 
        opportunities to complete high school or earn a general 
        equivalency degree, learn job skills, and obtain employment; 
        and
            ``(5) improved coordination and collaboration between the 
        Federal programs that serve runaway and homeless youth are 
        necessary for the development of a long-term strategy for 
        responding to the needs of this population.''.

SEC. 102. GRANT PROGRAM CONFORMING AMENDMENT.

    The heading for part A of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 
U.S.C. 5711 et seq.) is amended by striking ``Runaway and Homeless 
Youth'' and inserting ``Basic Center''.

SEC. 103. GRANTS FOR SERVICES PROVIDED.

    Section 311(a)(2)(C) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 
U.S.C. 5711(a)(2)(C)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (ii) by striking ``and'';
            (2) in clause (iii) by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (3) after clause (iii) by inserting the following:
                            ``(iv) at the request of runaway and 
                        homeless youth, testing for sexually 
                        transmitted diseases.''.

SEC. 104. REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISION RELATING TO CERTAIN ALLOTMENTS.

    Section 311(b) the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 
5711(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Subject to paragraph 
        (3), the'' and inserting ``The'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (3); and
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).

SEC. 105. ELIGIBILITY PROVISION.

    Section 312(a) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 
5712(a)) is amended by striking ``juveniles'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``youth''.

SEC. 106. RECOGNITION OF STATE LAW RELATING TO CAPACITY LIMITATION ON 
              ELIGIBLE RUNAWAY AND HOMELESS YOUTH CENTERS.

    Section 312(b)(2)(A) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 
U.S.C. 5712(b)(2)(A)) is amended by inserting after ``youth'' the 
following: ``, except where the applicant assures that the State where 
the center or locally controlled facility is located has a State or 
local law or regulation that requires a higher maximum to comply with 
licensure requirements for child and youth serving facilities''.

SEC. 107. MATERNITY GROUP HOMES.

    (a) Eligibility.--Section 322(a)(1) of the Runaway and Homeless 
Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714-2(a)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting after ``group homes,'' the following: 
        ``including maternity group homes,''; and
            (2) by inserting after ``use of credit,'' the following: 
        ``parenting skills (as appropriate),''.
    (b) Definition.--Section 322 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5714-2) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(c) Definition.--In this part, the term `maternity group home' 
means a community-based, adult-supervised transitional living 
arrangement that provides pregnant or parenting youth and their 
children with a supportive and supervised living arrangement in which 
such pregnant or parenting youth are required to learn parenting 
skills, including child development, family budgeting, health and 
nutrition, and other skills to promote their long-term economic 
independence in order to ensure the well-being of their children.''.

SEC. 108. LIMITED EXTENSION OF 540-DAY SHELTER ELIGIBILITY PERIOD.

    Section 322(a)(2) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 
5714-2(a)(2)) is amended by inserting after ``days'' the following: ``, 
except that a youth in a program under this part who is under the age 
of 18 years on the last day of the 540-day period may, if otherwise 
qualified for the program, remain in the program until the earlier of 
the youth's 18th birthday or the 180th day after the end of the 540-day 
period''.

SEC. 109. PART A PLAN COORDINATION ASSURANCES.

    Section 312(b)(4)(B) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 
U.S.C. 5712(b)(4)(B)) is amended by striking ``personnel'' and all that 
follows through the semicolon and inserting ``McKinney-Vento school 
district liaisons, designated under section 722(g)(1)(J)(ii) of the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii)), 
to assure that runaway and homeless youth are provided information 
about the educational services available to such youth under subtitle B 
of title VII of that Act;''.

SEC. 110. PART B PLAN COORDINATION AGREEMENT.

    Section 322(a) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 
5714-2(a)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon at the end of 
        paragraph (13);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (14) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(15) to coordinate services with McKinney-Vento school 
        district liaisons, designated under section 722(g)(1)(J)(ii) of 
        the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
        11432(g)(1)(J)(ii)), to assure that runaway and homeless youth 
        are provided information about the educational services 
        available to such youth under subtitle B of title VII of that 
        Act.''.

SEC. 111. PART B PLAN DEVELOPMENT.

    Section 322(a)(7) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 
5714-2(a)(7)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(7) to develop an adequate plan to ensure proper referral 
        of homeless youth to social service, law enforcement, 
        educational (including post-secondary education), vocational, 
        training (including services and programs for youth available 
        under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998), welfare (including 
        programs under the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
        Reconciliation Act of 1996), legal service, and health care 
        programs and to help integrate and coordinate such services for 
        youths;''.

SEC. 112. COORDINATION OF PROGRAMS.

    Section 341 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714-
21) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) shall consult, as appropriate, the Secretary of 
        Housing and Urban Development to ensure coordination of 
        programs and services for homeless youth.''.

SEC. 113. CLARIFICATION OF GRANT AUTHORITY.

    Section 343(a) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 
5714-23(a)) is amended by inserting after ``service projects'' the 
following: ``regarding activities under this title''.

SEC. 114. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT RELATING TO DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.

    The section heading of section 344 of the Runaway and Homeless 
Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714-24) is amended by striking ``temporary''.

SEC. 115. REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISION RELATING TO STUDY.

    The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701 et seq.) is 
amended by striking section 345 (42 U.S.C. 5714-25).

SEC. 116. AGE LIMIT FOR HOMELESS YOUTH.

    Section 387(3)(A)(i) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 
U.S.C. 5732a(3)(A)(i)) is amended by inserting after ``of age'' the 
following: ``, or, in the case of a youth seeking shelter in a center 
under part A, not more than 18 years of age''.

SEC. 117. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Other Than Part E.--Section 388(a)(1) of the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5751(a)(1)) is amended by striking ``such 
sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003'' 
and inserting ``$105,000,000 for fiscal year 2004, and such sums as may 
be necessary for fiscal years 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008''.
    (b) Part E.--Section 388(a)(4) of the Runaway and Homeless Youth 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5751(a)(4)) is amended by striking ``2000, 2001, 2002, 
and 2003'' and inserting ``2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008''.
    (c) Part B Allocation.--Section 388(a)(2)(B) of the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5751(a)(2)(B)) is amended by striking 
``not less than 20 percent, and not more than 30 percent'' and 
inserting ``45 percent and, in those fiscal years in which continuation 
grant obligations and the quality and number of applicants for parts A 
and B warrant not more than 55 percent''.

SEC. 118. REPORT ON PROMISING STRATEGIES TO END YOUTH HOMELESSNESS.

    Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation with the 
United States Interagency Council on Homelessness, shall submit to the 
Congress a report on promising strategies to end youth homelessness.

SEC. 119. STUDY OF HOUSING SERVICES AND STRATEGIES.

    The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall conduct a study of 
programs funded under part B of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 
U.S.C. 5714-1 et seq.) to report on long-term housing outcomes for 
youth after exiting the program. The study of any such program should 
provide information on housing services available to youth upon exiting 
the program, including assistance in locating and retaining permanent 
housing and referrals to other residential programs. In addition, the 
study should identify housing models and placement strategies that 
prevent future episodes of homelessness.

SEC. 120. RESTRICTION ON USE OF FUNDS.

    The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5701 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 389. RESTRICTION ON USE OF FUNDS.

    ``(a) In General.--None of the funds contained in this title may be 
used for any program of distributing sterile needles or syringes for 
the hypodermic injection of any illegal drug.
    ``(b) Separate Accounting.--Any individual or entity who receives 
any funds contained in this title and who carries out any program 
described in subsection (a) shall account for all funds used for such 
program separately from any funds contained in this title.''.

       TITLE II--AMENDMENTS TO MISSING CHILDREN'S ASSISTANCE ACT

SEC. 201. AMENDMENT TO FINDINGS.

    Section 402 of the Missing Children's Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
5771) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 402. FINDINGS.

    ``The Congress finds that--
            ``(1) each year thousands of children are abducted or 
        removed from the control of a parent having legal custody 
        without such parent's consent, under circumstances which 
        immediately place the child in grave danger;
            ``(2) many missing children are at great risk of both 
        physical harm and sexual exploitation;
            ``(3) in many cases, parents and local law enforcement 
        officials have neither the resources nor the expertise to mount 
        expanded search efforts;
            ``(4) abducted children are frequently moved from one 
        locality to another, requiring the cooperation and coordination 
        of local, State, and Federal law enforcement efforts;
            ``(5) the National Center for Missing and Exploited 
        Children--
                    ``(A) serves as the national resource center and 
                clearinghouse;
                    ``(B) works in partnership with the Department of 
                Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the 
                Department of the Treasury, the Department of State, 
                and many other agencies in the effort to find missing 
                children and prevent child victimization; and
                    ``(C) operates a national and increasingly 
                worldwide network, linking the Center online with each 
                of the missing children clearinghouses operated by the 
                50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, 
                as well as with Scotland Yard in the United Kingdom, 
                the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, INTERPOL 
                headquarters in Lyon, France, and others, which enable 
                the Center to transmit images and information regarding 
                missing children to law enforcement across the United 
                States and around the world instantly.''.

SEC. 202. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Annual Grant to National Center for Missing and Exploited 
Children.--Section 404(b)(2) of the Missing Children's Assistance Act 
(42 U.S.C. 5773(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``2005'' and inserting 
``2008''.
    (b) In General.--Section 408(a) of the Missing Children's 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5777(a)) is amended by striking ``2005.'' and 
inserting ``2008''.

            Passed the Senate September 26, 2003.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
108th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1451

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

 To reauthorize programs under the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act and 
     the Missing Children's Assistance Act, and for other purposes.









[Congressional Bills 107th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 276 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







107th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 276

   To amend chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, to provide for 
 congressional review of any rule promulgated by the Internal Revenue 
    Service that increases Federal revenue, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            2001.02.07

 Mr. Shelby (for himself, Mr. Bond, Mr. Thomas, Mr. Hagel, Mr. 
        Sessions, Mr. Helms, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Burns, Mr. Kyl, Mr. 
        Cochran, Ms. Snowe, and Mr. Allard) introduced the following 
        bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
        Governmental AffairsYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, to provide for 
 congressional review of any rule promulgated by the Internal Revenue 
    Service that increases Federal revenue, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE RULES THAT 
              INCREASE REVENUE.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Stealth Tax 
Prevention Act''.
    (b) In General.--Section 804(2) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
            ``(2) The term `major rule'--
                    ``(A) means any rule that--
                            ``(i) the Administrator of the Office of 
                        Information and Regulatory Affairs of the 
                        Office of Management and Budget finds has 
                        resulted in or is likely to result in--
                                    ``(I) an annual effect on the 
                                economy of $100,000,000 or more;
                                    ``(II) a major increase in costs or 
                                prices for consumers, individual 
                                industries, Federal, State, or local 
                                government agencies, or geographic 
                                regions; or
                                    ``(III) significant adverse effects 
                                on competition, employment, investment, 
                                productivity, innovation, or on the 
                                ability of United States-based 
                                enterprises to compete with foreign-
                                based enterprises in domestic and 
                                export markets; or
                            ``(ii)(I) is promulgated by the Internal 
                        Revenue Service; and
                            ``(II) the Administrator of the Office of 
                        Information and Regulatory Affairs of the 
                        Office of Management and Budget finds that the 
                        implementation and enforcement of the rule has 
                        resulted in or is likely to result in any net 
                        increase in Federal revenues over current 
                        practices in tax collection or revenues 
                        anticipated from the rule on the date of the 
                        enactment of the statute under which the rule 
                        is promulgated; and
                    ``(B) does not include any rule promulgated under 
                the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and the amendments 
                made by that Act.''.
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 106th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 375 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







106th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 375

To create a rural business lending pilot program within the U.S. Small 
            Business Administration, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            Feb 4, 1999

  Mr. Stevens (for himself, Mr. Inouye, Mr. Murkowski, and Mr. Akaka) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
                      Committee on Small Business

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To create a rural business lending pilot program within the U.S. Small 
            Business Administration, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be referred to as the ``Rural Business Lending Act''.

SEC. 2. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this Act are to--
            (1) establish a rural business lending pilot program to be 
        administered by the U.S. Small Business Administration;
            (2) increase the number of loans in certain rural areas for 
        the purposes authorized by section 7(a) of the Small Business 
        Act (15 U.S.C. 636);
            (3) make loans and capital for investment more readily 
        available in rural areas for economic development and 
        employment that might not otherwise be available; and
            (4) review the effectiveness of the pilot program after two 
        years to determine the advisability of making it permanent or 
        implementing it in other areas.

SEC. 3. RURAL BUSINESS LENDING PILOT PROJECT.

    Section 7 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636) is amended by 
adding the following new subsection--
    ``(n) Rural Business Lending Program.--
            ``(1) There is established a Rural Business Lending Program 
        under which the U.S. Small Business Administration shall--
                    ``(A) guarantee loans through participating lenders 
                in an amount not greater than $750,000 per loan;
                    ``(B) guarantee up to 90 percent of loans made by 
                participating lenders;
                    ``(C) collect a guarantee fee of not more than one 
                percent of the amount guaranteed; and
                    ``(D) exempt participating lenders from the basis 
                point fee otherwise required under the 7(a) lending 
                program if such an exemption will significantly 
                increase the number of loans made under the Rural 
                Business Lending Program.
            ``(2) In the event that the Small Business Administration 
        is required to honor a guarantee under the Rural Business 
        Lending Program, the Small Business Administration shall take 
        over servicing responsibility as soon as compliance with the 
        loan authorization and review of the servicing can reasonably 
        by accomplished.
            ``(3) Applications under this program shall be in the same 
        form and follow the same procedures as loans under the regular 
        7(a) program.
            ``(4) Applications received under this program shall be 
        processed in the Small Business Administration Offices in the 
        State of Alaska and State of Hawaii.
            ``(5) Within 24 months after the date of enactment of this 
        Act, the Administration shall submit to the Committees on Small 
        Business of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        report on the effectiveness of the Rural Business Lending 
        Program.
            ``(6) A small business concern must meet all the criteria 
        and requirements for loans made under the regular 7(a) loan 
        program but must also be located in a community with a 
        population of 9,000 or less as determined by the most recent 
        census, and be located in the State of Alaska or the State of 
        Hawaii.''.

SEC. 4. AUTHORITY.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such funds as are necessary 
in each of fiscal years 2000, 2001, and 2002 to carry out the 
provisions of this Act.
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 105th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1430 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







105th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1430

 To suspend from Jan 1, 1998, until 2002-12-31, the duty on 
                  SE2SI Spray Granulated (HOE S 4291).


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            07-11-1997

   Mr. Helms introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
                  referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To suspend from Jan 1, 1998, until 2002-12-31, the duty on 
                  SE2SI Spray Granulated (HOE S 4291).

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SUSPENSION OF DUTY ON SE2SI SPRAY GRANULATED (HOE S 4291).

    Subchapter II of chapter 99 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of 
the United States is amended by inserting in numerical sequence the 
following new subheading:
    

         ``    9902.39.80     SE2SI Spray                                                                       
                               Granulated (HOE                                                                  
                               S 4291) provided                                                                 
                               for in                                                                           
                               subheading                                                                       
                               3907.99.........  Free        No change        No change       On or before      
                                                                                               12/31/2002       
                                                                                                                

SEC. 2. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    The amendment made by section 1 applies with respect to goods 
entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after 
Jan 1, 1998.
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1211 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

103d CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1211

      To extend the suspension of duties on certain glass fibers.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                July 1 (legislative day, June 30), 1993

   Mr. Brown introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
                  referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
      To extend the suspension of duties on certain glass fibers.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SUSPENSION OF DUTY.

    Headings 9902.70.19 and 9902.70.20 of the Harmonized Tariff 
Schedule of the United States are each amended by striking ``12/31/92'' 
and inserting ``12/31/94''.

SEC. 2. PRODUCT DESCRIPTION.

    Headings 9902.70.19 and 9902.70.20 of the Harmonized Tariff 
Schedule of the United States are each amended by striking ``9 microns 
in diameter or 10 microns in diameter'' and inserting ``7 microns in 
diameter to 11.5 microns in diameter''.

SEC. 3. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    (a) In General.--The amendments made by sections 1 and 2 apply to 
articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or 
after the 15th day after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Retroactive Provision.--Notwithstanding section 514 of the 
Tariff Act of 1930 or any other provision of law, upon a request filed 
with the appropriate customs officer on or before the 90th day after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, any entry, or withdrawal from 
warehouse for consumption, of an article described in heading 
9902.70.19 or 9902.70.20 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the 
United States that was made--
            (1) after 31/12/1992; and
            (2) before the 15th day after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act;
and with respect to which there would have been no duty or a lower duty 
if the amendment made by section 1 or section 2 applied to such entry 
or withdrawal, shall be liquidated or reliquidated as though such entry 
or withdrawal occurred on such 15th day.

                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1271 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1271

   To direct the President to establish guidelines for United States 
          foreign assistance programs, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 10, 2013

 Mr. Rubio (for himself and Mr. Cardin) introduced the following bill; 
which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To direct the President to establish guidelines for United States 
          foreign assistance programs, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Foreign Aid Transparency and 
Accountability Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. GUIDELINES FOR UNITED STATES FOREIGN ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to evaluate the 
performance of United States foreign assistance and its contribution to 
policy, strategies, projects, program goals, and priorities undertaken 
by the Federal Government, to foster and promote innovative programs to 
improve effectiveness, and to coordinate the monitoring and evaluation 
processes of Federal departments and agencies that administer foreign 
assistance.
    (b) Establishment of Guidelines.--Not later than 18 months after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall establish 
guidelines regarding the establishment of measurable goals, performance 
metrics, and monitoring and evaluation plans that can be applied with 
reasonable consistency to United States foreign assistance. Such 
guidelines shall be established according to best practices of 
monitoring and evaluation studies and analyses.
    (c) Objectives of Guidelines.--
            (1) In general.--The guidelines established under 
        subsection (b) shall provide direction to Federal departments 
        and agencies that administer United States foreign assistance 
        on how to develop the complete range of activities relating to 
        the monitoring of resources, the evaluation of projects, the 
        evaluation of program impacts, and analysis that is necessary 
        for the identification of findings, generalizations that can be 
        derived from those findings, and their applicability to 
        proposed project and program design.
            (2) Objectives.--Specifically, the guidelines shall provide 
        direction on how to achieve the following objectives for 
        monitoring and evaluation programs:
                    (A) Building measurable goals, performance metrics 
                and monitoring and evaluation into program design, to 
                be tracked against an established baseline at the 
                outset, including the provision of sufficient program 
                resources to conduct monitoring and evaluation.
                    (B) Disseminating guidelines for the development 
                and implementation of monitoring and evaluation 
                programs to all personnel, especially in the field, who 
                are responsible for the design, implementation, and 
                management of foreign assistance programs.
                    (C) Developing a clearinghouse capacity for the 
                collection and dissemination of knowledge and lessons 
                learned that serve as benchmarks to guide future 
                programs for United States development professionals, 
                implementing partners, the international aid community, 
                and aid recipient governments, and as a repository of 
                knowledge on lessons learned.
                    (D) Distributing evaluation reports internally and 
                making this material available online to the public. 
                Furthermore, providing a summary of each evaluation, 
                including a description of the evaluation methodology, 
                and key findings and recommendations made in the 
                evaluation, to the public online in a fully searchable 
                form within 90 days after the completion of the 
                evaluation. Any material made available online pursuant 
                to this subparagraph may not include any classified or 
                proprietary information of nongovernmental 
                organizations, contractors, or private sector clients.
                    (E) Establishing annual monitoring and evaluation 
                agendas and objectives.
                    (F) Applying rigorous monitoring and evaluation 
                methodologies to focus on learning, accountability, and 
                policymaking, choosing from among a wide variety of 
                qualitative, quantitative, summative, and formative 
                methods common in the field of social scientific 
                inquiry, including impact evaluations, a simple grading 
                system providing a clear evaluation of outcomes, and 
                analysis of project logic that includes inputs, 
                activities, outputs, intermediate outcomes, and end 
                outcomes.
                    (G) Partnering with the academic community, 
                implementing partners, and national and international 
                institutions that have expertise in monitoring and 
                evaluation and analysis when such partnerships will 
                provide needed expertise or will significantly improve 
                the evaluation and analysis.
                    (H) Developing and implementing a training plan for 
                aid personnel on the proper conduct of monitoring and 
                evaluation programs.
                    (I) Providing relevant and useful evaluation 
                questions that meet the needs of decisionmakers, an 
                appropriate and feasible design for the evaluation 
                questions, and criteria that permit objective 
                assessment and valid conclusions on the evaluation 
                questions.
                    (J) Ensuring sufficient, credible, and reliable 
                measures and data in the evaluation of the 
                effectiveness of foreign assistance programs, including 
                an assessment of assumptions and limitations in such 
                evaluations.
                    (K) Ensuring that generally accepted standards such 
                as independence, professional judgment, competence, and 
                quality control and assurance are followed in the 
                monitoring and evaluation of programs.
    (d)  Implementation of Guidelines.--Beginning not later than one 
year after the date on which the President establishes the guidelines 
under subsection (b), the head of each Federal department or agency 
that administers United States foreign assistance shall administer the 
foreign assistance in accordance with the guidelines.
    (e) Presidential Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report that contains a detailed 
description of the guidelines that have been developed on measurable 
goals, performance metrics, and monitoring and evaluation plans for 
United States foreign assistance programs established under this 
section. The report shall be submitted in unclassified form to the 
maximum extent possible, but may contain a classified annex.
    (f) Implementation Not Required for Certain Security Sector 
Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State shall not be 
        required to administer any United States foreign assistance 
        program relating to United States security sector assistance in 
        accordance with the guidelines established under this section 
        if the Secretary of State makes a determination that the 
        administration of such program in accordance with the 
        guidelines would be detrimental to the national interests of 
        the United States.
            (2) Briefings or report.--The Secretary of State shall 
        provide briefings or submit a written report to the appropriate 
        congressional committees explaining any determination made 
        under paragraph (1). Any such report may be submitted to the 
        appropriate congressional committees in classified form.
    (g) Comptroller General Reports.--The Comptroller General of the 
United States shall--
            (1) not later than one year after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
        a report that contains an analysis of the actions that the 
        major Federal departments and agencies that administer United 
        States foreign assistance have taken to ensure that United 
        States foreign assistance program evaluation is planned, 
        conducted, and utilized effectively;
            (2) not later than three years after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a report that contains an analysis of--
                    (A) the guidelines established pursuant to 
                subsection (b); and
                    (B) the implementation of the guidelines by the 
                major Federal departments and agencies that administer 
                United States foreign assistance; and
            (3) not later than 5 years after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, and biennially thereafter for 8 years, submit to 
        the appropriate congressional committees a report that contains 
        an analysis of the implementation of the guidelines by the 
        major Federal departments and agencies that administer United 
        States foreign assistance.
    (h) Evaluation Defined.--In this section, the term ``evaluation'' 
means, with respect to a United States foreign assistance program, the 
systematic collection and analysis of information about the 
characteristics and outcomes of the program and projects under the 
program as a basis for judgments, to improve effectiveness, and to 
inform decisions about current and future programming.

SEC. 3. INTERNET WEBSITE TO MAKE PUBLICLY AVAILABLE COMPREHENSIVE, 
              TIMELY, COMPARABLE, AND ACCESSIBLE INFORMATION ON UNITED 
              STATES FOREIGN ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.

    (a) Publication of Information.--
            (1) Establishment of website.--Not later than 30 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall 
        direct the Secretary of State to revise the Department of 
        State's Internet website, ``ForeignAssistance.gov'', to make 
        publicly available comprehensive, timely, comparable, and 
        accessible information on United States foreign assistance 
        programs.
            (2) Information sharing.--The head of each Federal 
        department or agency that administers United States foreign 
        assistance shall, not later than two years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter, 
        provide to the Secretary of State information about the foreign 
        assistance programs carried out by such department or agency.
            (3) Updates to website.--The Secretary of State shall 
        publish not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act and update on a quarterly basis on the 
        ``ForeignAssistance.gov'' website the information provided 
        under paragraph (2).
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--
            (1) In general.--The information described in subsection 
        (a) shall be published on a detailed program-by-program basis 
        and country-by-country basis.
            (2) Types of information.--To ensure transparency, 
        accountability, and effectiveness of United States foreign 
        assistance programs, the information described in subsection 
        (a) shall include country assistance strategies, annual budget 
        documents, congressional budget justifications, obligations, 
        expenditures, and reports and evaluations for United States 
        foreign assistance programs and projects under such programs. 
        Each type of information described in this paragraph shall be 
        published or updated on the Internet website not later than 90 
        days after the date of issuance of the information.
            (3) Report in lieu of inclusion.--
                    (A) Health or security of implementing partners.--
                If the head of a Federal department or agency makes a 
                determination that the inclusion of a required item of 
                information on the Internet website would jeopardize 
                the health or security of an implementing partner or 
                program beneficiary, the head of the Federal department 
                or agency may provide briefings to the appropriate 
                congressional committees on the item of information or 
                submit to the appropriate congressional committees the 
                item of information in a written report in lieu of 
                including it on the Internet website, along with the 
                reasons for not including it in the database required 
                under this section.
                    (B) National interests of the united states.--If 
                the Secretary of State makes a determination that the 
                inclusion of a required item of information on the 
                Internet website would be detrimental to the national 
                interests of the United States, the Secretary of State 
                shall provide briefings to the appropriate 
                congressional committees on the item of information or 
                submit to the appropriate congressional committees the 
                item of information in a written report in lieu of 
                including it on the Internet website, along with the 
                reasons for not including it in the database required 
                under this section.
                    (C) Form.--Any briefing or item of information 
                provided under this paragraph may be provided in 
                classified form.
            (4) Failure to comply.--If the head of the department or 
        agency fails to comply with the requirements under paragraph 
        (2), the head shall indicate for each required item--
                    (A) identification of the reason for not including 
                the information during that quarter;
                    (B) a detailed explanation of the reason; and
                    (C) the department's or agency's plan and timeline 
                for including the omitted information for the current 
                fiscal year and the following two fiscal years, 
                including milestones, deadlines, prerequisites, and 
                other explanatory information.
    (c) Scope of Information.--
            (1) In general.--The Internet website shall contain the 
        information described in subsection (b) as follows:
                    (A) For fiscal year 2013, the information relating 
                to such fiscal year and each of the immediately 
                preceding 2 fiscal years.
                    (B) For fiscal year 2014, the information relating 
                to such fiscal year and each of the immediately 
                preceding 3 fiscal years.
                    (C) For fiscal year 2015, the information relating 
                to such fiscal year and each of the immediately 
                preceding 4 fiscal years.
                    (D) For fiscal year 2016, the information relating 
                to such fiscal year and each of the immediately 
                preceding 5 fiscal years.
            (2) Older information.--For fiscal year 2017 and each 
        fiscal year thereafter, the Internet website shall also contain 
        a link to a searchable database available to the public 
        containing information described in subsection (b) relating to 
        fiscal years prior to the immediately preceding 5 fiscal years 
        but subsequent to fiscal year 2010.

SEC. 4. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IMPLEMENTATION.

    It is the sense of Congress that Congress shall take into account 
the Comptroller General's reports under section 2(f)(2) when making 
decisions regarding the appropriation of funds for each department or 
agency that administers United States foreign assistance.

SEC. 5. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.

    Up to 5 percent of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for a 
fiscal year for each Federal department or agency for United States 
foreign assistance programs is authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this Act with respect to such programs for such fiscal year.

SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
                Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the 
                Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) United states foreign assistance.--The term ``United 
        States foreign assistance'' means any tangible or intangible 
        item provided by any agency of the United States Government to 
        a foreign country, including any training, service, or 
        technical advice, any item of real, personal, or mixed 
        property, any agricultural commodity, United States dollars, 
        and any currencies of any foreign country which are owned by 
        the United States Government, and includes foreign assistance 
        provided by means of gift, loan, sale, credit, or guaranty.
            (3) United states security sector assistance.--The term 
        ``United States security sector assistance'' means the 
        policies, programs, and activities the United States Government 
        employs to engage with foreign partners in the use of force to 
        protect both the foreign state and its citizens at home or 
        abroad, to maintain international peace and security, to 
        contribute to efforts that address common security challenges, 
        and to enforce the law and provide oversight of security 
        institutions and forces, including through helping foreign 
        partners build and sustain the capacity and effectiveness of 
        institutions to provide security, safety, and justice for their 
        people.
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 112th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1302 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.1302

                      One Hundred Twelfth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
            the third day of January, two thousand and twelve


                                 An Act


 
To authorize the Administrator of General Services to convey a parcel of 
        real property in Tracy, California, to the City of Tracy.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE OF PARCEL, TRACY, CALIFORNIA.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
    Administrator of General Services.
        (2) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Tracy, 
    California.
        (3) Parcel.--
            (A) In general.--The term ``Parcel'' means the 
        approximately 150 acres conveyed to the City for educational or 
        recreational purposes pursuant to section 140 of division C of 
        Public Law 105-277 (112 Stat. 2681-599; 113 Stat. 104; 118 
        Stat. 335).
            (B) Exclusions.--The term ``Parcel'' does not include the 
        approximately 50 acres conveyed to the City for economic 
        development, in which the United States retains no reversionary 
        interest, pursuant to section 140 of division C of Public Law 
        105-277 (112 Stat. 2681-599; 113 Stat. 104; 118 Stat. 335).
    (b) Conveyance.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsections (c) through (f) of 
    section 140 of division C of Public Law 105-277 (112 Stat. 2681-
    599; 113 Stat. 104; 118 Stat. 335) and subject to subsection (c), 
    the Administrator may offer to enter into a binding agreement with 
    the City, as soon as practicable, but not later than 180 days after 
    the date of enactment of this Act, under which the Administrator 
    may convey to the City, through a deed of release or other 
    appropriate instrument, any reversionary interest retained by the 
    United States in the Parcel, and all other terms, conditions, 
    reservations, and restrictions imposed, in connection with the 
    conveyance of the Parcel.
        (2) Survey.--For purposes of paragraph (1), the exact acreage 
    and legal description of the Parcel shall be determined by a survey 
    that is satisfactory to the Administrator.
    (c) Consideration.--
        (1) In general.--As consideration for the conveyance under 
    subsection (b), the City shall pay to the Administrator an amount 
    not less than the appraised fair market value of the Parcel, as 
    determined by the Administrator pursuant to an appraisal conducted 
    by a licensed, independent appraiser, based on the highest and best 
    use of the Parcel, as determined by the Administrator.
        (2) Treatment.--The determination of the Administrator under 
    paragraph (1) regarding the fair market value of the Parcel shall 
    be final.
    (d) Cost of Conveyance.--The City shall be responsible for 
reimbursing the Administrator for the costs associated with 
implementing this section, including the costs of each applicable 
appraisal and survey.
    (e) Proceeds.--
        (1) Deposit.--The net proceeds from the conveyance under this 
    section shall be deposited in the Federal Buildings Fund 
    established by section 592(a) of title 40, United States Code.
        (2) Expenditure.--The amounts deposited in the Federal 
    Buildings Fund under paragraph (1) shall be available to the 
    Administrator, in amounts specified in appropriations Acts, for 
    expenditure for any lawful purpose consistent with the authority of 
    the Administrator.
    (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Administrator may 
establish such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
conveyance under subsection (b) as the Administrator considers to be 
appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
    (g) No Effect on Compliance With Environmental Laws.--Nothing in 
this Act or any amendment made by this Act affects or limits the 
application of or obligation to comply with any environmental law, 
including section 120(h) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)).

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.









[Congressional Bills 111th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1472 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.1472

                      One Hundred Eleventh Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
             the sixth day of January, two thousand and nine


                                 An Act


 
To establish a section within the Criminal Division of the Department of 
 Justice to enforce human rights laws, to make technical and conforming 
 amendments to criminal and immigration laws pertaining to human rights 
                   violations, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Human Rights Enforcement Act of 
2009''.
SEC. 2. SECTION TO ENFORCE HUMAN RIGHTS LAWS.
    (a) Repeal.--Section 103(h) of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
(8 U.S.C. 1103(h)) is repealed.
    (b) Section To Enforce Human Rights Laws.--Chapter 31 of title 28, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 509A the 
following:
``Sec. 509B. Section to enforce human rights laws
    ``(a) Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of the 
Human Rights Enforcement Act of 2009, the Attorney General shall 
establish a section within the Criminal Division of the Department of 
Justice with responsibility for the enforcement of laws against 
suspected participants in serious human rights offenses.
    ``(b) The section established under subsection (a) is authorized 
to--
        ``(1) take appropriate legal action against individuals 
    suspected of participating in serious human rights offenses; and
        ``(2) coordinate any such legal action with the United States 
    Attorney for the relevant jurisdiction.
    ``(c) The Attorney General shall, as appropriate, consult with the 
Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of State.
    ``(d) In determining the appropriate legal action to take against 
individuals who are suspected of committing serious human rights 
offenses under Federal law, the section shall take into consideration 
the availability of criminal prosecution under the laws of the United 
States for such offenses or in a foreign jurisdiction that is prepared 
to undertake a prosecution for the conduct that forms the basis for 
such offenses.
    ``(e) The term `serious human rights offenses' includes violations 
of Federal criminal laws relating to genocide, torture, war crimes, and 
the use or recruitment of child soldiers under sections 1091, 2340, 
2340A, 2441, and 2442 of title 18, United States Code.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 31 of the title 28, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 509A the following:

``Sec. 509B. Section to enforce human rights laws.''.
SEC. 3. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
    (a) Genocide.--Section 1091 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``, in a circumstance described in 
        subsection (d)''; and
            (B) by striking ``or attempts to do so,'';
        (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``in a circumstance 
    described in subsection (d)'';
        (3) by striking subsection (d) and (e); and
        (4) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) Attempt and Conspiracy.--Any person who attempts or conspires 
to commit an offense under this section shall be punished in the same 
manner as a person who completes the offense.
    ``(e) Jurisdiction.--There is jurisdiction over the offenses 
described in subsections (a), (c), and (d) if--
        ``(1) the offense is committed in whole or in part within the 
    United States; or
        ``(2) regardless of where the offense is committed, the alleged 
    offender is--
            ``(A) a national of the United States (as that term is 
        defined in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
        (8 U.S.C. 1101));
            ``(B) an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in 
        the United States (as that term is defined in section 101 of 
        the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101));
            ``(C) a stateless person whose habitual residence is in the 
        United States; or
            ``(D) present in the United States.
    ``(f) Nonapplicability of Certain Limitations.--Notwithstanding 
section 3282, in the case of an offense under this section, an 
indictment may be found, or information instituted, at any time without 
limitation.''.
    (b) Immigration and Nationality Act.--Section 212(a)(3)(E)(ii) of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)(E)(ii)) is 
amended by striking ``conduct outside the United States that would, if 
committed in the United States or by a United States national, be''.
    (c) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsections (b), (c), 
and (d) of the Child Soldiers Accountability Act of 2008 (Public Law 
110-340) shall apply to offenses committed before, on, or after the 
date of the enactment of the Child Soldiers Accountability Act of 2008.
    (d) Material Support for Genocide or Child Soldier Recruitment.--
Section 2339A(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by--
        (1) inserting ``, 1091'' after ``956''; and
        (2) striking ``, or 2340A'' and inserting ``, 2340A, or 2442''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.









[Congressional Bills 110th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1506 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







110th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1506

 To amend the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to modify provisions 
         relating to beach monitoring, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              2007/05/24

Mr. Lautenberg (for himself and Mr. Menendez) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Environment 
                            and Public Works

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to modify provisions 
         relating to beach monitoring, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Beach Protection Act of 2007''.

SEC. 2. BEACH WATER POLLUTION SOURCE IDENTIFICATION AND PREVENTION.

    (a) In General.--Section 406 of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act (33 U.S.C. 1346) is amended in each of subsections (b), (c), (d), 
(g), and (h) by striking ``monitoring and notification'' each place it 
appears and inserting ``monitoring, public notification, source 
tracking, sanitary surveys, and prevention efforts to address the 
identified sources of beachwater pollution''.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 406(i) of the Federal 
Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1346(i)) is amended by striking 
``$30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2001 through 2005'' and 
inserting ``$60,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2007 through 2012''.

SEC. 3. FUNDING FOR BEACHES ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND COASTAL HEALTH 
              ACT.

    Section 8 of the Beaches Environmental Assessment and Coastal 
Health Act of 2000 (114 Stat. 877) is amended by striking ``2005'' and 
inserting ``2012''.

SEC. 4. STATE REPORTS.

    Section 406(b)(3)(A)(ii) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
(33 U.S.C. 1346(b)(3)(A)(ii)) is amended by inserting ``and all 
environmental agencies of the State with authority to prevent or treat 
sources of beachwater pollution'' after ``public''.

SEC. 5. USE OF RAPID TESTING METHODS.

    (a) Contents of State and Local Government Programs.--Section 
406(c)(4)(A) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
1346(c)(4)(A)) is amended by inserting ``, including the use of a rapid 
testing method after the last day of the 1-year period following the 
date of approval of the rapid testing method by the Administrator'' 
before the semicolon at the end.
    (b) Revised Criteria.--Section 304(a)(9) of the Federal Water 
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1314(a)(9)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``rapid'' before ``testing''; and
            (2) by striking ``, as appropriate''.
    (c) Definition.--Section 502 of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act (33 U.S.C. 1362) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(25) Rapid testing method.--The term `rapid testing 
        method' means a method of testing for which results are 
        available within 2 hours.''.

SEC. 6. PROMPT COMMUNICATION WITH STATE ENVIRONMENTAL AGENCIES.

    Section 406(c)(5) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
U.S.C. 1346(c)(5)) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``prompt communication'' and inserting ``communication within 
        24 hours of the receipt of the results of a water quality 
        sample'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (3) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``and'' after the 
        semicolon at the end; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) all agencies of the State government with 
                authority to require the prevention or treatment of the 
                sources of beachwater pollution;''.

SEC. 7. CONTENT OF STATE AND LOCAL PROGRAMS.

    Section 406(c) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
U.S.C. 1346(c)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (6), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (7), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting a semicolon;
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) measures to develop and implement a beachwater 
        pollution source identification and tracking program for the 
        coastal recreation waters that are not meeting applicable water 
        quality standards for pathogens;
            ``(9) a publicly accessible and searchable global 
        information system database with information updated within 24 
        hours of the availability of the information, organized by 
        beach and with defined standards, sampling plan, monitoring 
        protocols, sampling results, and number and cause of beach 
        closing and advisory days; and
            ``(10) measures to ensure that closures or advisories are 
        made or issued within 24 hours after the State government 
        determines that any coastal recreation waters in the State are 
        not meeting or are not expected to meet applicable water 
        quality standards for pathogens.''.

SEC. 8. COMPLIANCE REVIEW.

    Section 406(h) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
U.S.C. 1346(h)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and indenting the 
        subparagraphs appropriately;
            (2) by striking ``In the'' and inserting the following: 
        ``(1) In general.--In the''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Compliance review.--On or before July 31 of each 
        calendar year beginning after the date of enactment of this 
        paragraph, the Administrator shall--
                    ``(A) prepare a written assessment of compliance 
                with all statutory and regulatory requirements of this 
                section for each State and local government and of 
                compliance with conditions of each grant made under 
                this section to a State or local government;
                    ``(B) notify the State or local government of the 
                assessment; and
                    ``(C) make each of the assessments available to the 
                public in a searchable database on or before December 
                31 of the calendar year.
            ``(3) Corrective action.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Any State or local government 
                that the Administrator notifies under paragraph (2) 
                that the State or local government is not in compliance 
                with any requirement or grant condition described in 
                paragraph (2) shall take such action as is necessary to 
                comply with the requirement or condition by not later 
                than 1 year after the date of the notification.
                    ``(B) Noncompliance.--If the State or local 
                government is not in compliance with such a requirement 
                or condition by the date that is 1 year after the 
                deadline specified in subparagraph (A), any grants made 
                under subsection (b) to the State or local government, 
                after the last day of the 1-year period and while the 
                State or local government is not in compliance with all 
                requirements and grant conditions described in 
                paragraph (2), shall require a Federal share of not to 
                exceed 50 percent.
            ``(4) GAO review.--Not later than December 31 of the third 
        calendar year beginning after the date of enactment of this 
        paragraph, the Comptroller General of the United States shall--
                    ``(A) conduct a review of the activities of the 
                Administrator under paragraphs (2) and (3) during the 
                first and second calendar years beginning after that 
                date of enactment; and
                    ``(B) submit to Congress a report on the results of 
                the review.''.
                                 <all>









[Congressional Bills 109th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1080 Introduced in Senate (IS)]







109th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1080

  To amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to require the use of nontoxic 
products in the case of hydraulic fracturing that occurs during oil or 
                   natural gas production activities.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 19, 2005

    Mr. Jeffords (for himself, Mr. Lautenberg, Mrs. Boxer, and Mr. 
  Lieberman) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Environment and Public Works

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to require the use of nontoxic 
products in the case of hydraulic fracturing that occurs during oil or 
                   natural gas production activities.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Hydraulic Fracturing Safety Act of 
2005''.

SEC. 2. HYDRAULIC FRACTURING.

    Section 1421(d)(1) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 
300h(d)(1)) is amended--
            (1) by adding at the end the following: ``The term 
        `underground injection' includes hydraulic fracturing, which 
        means the process of creating a fracture in a reservoir rock, 
        through the injection of fluids and propping agents, for the 
        purpose of reservoir stimulation relating to oil and gas 
        production activities.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Hydraulic fracturing.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In the case of hydraulic 
                fracturing that occurs during the exploration for, or 
                the production of, oil or natural gas, a producer of 
                oil or natural gas shall not use diesel fuel or any 
                other material that the Administrator has listed as a 
                priority pollutant under the Federal Water Pollution 
                Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.).
                    ``(B) Regulations.--The Administrator shall 
                promulgate such regulations as are necessary--
                            ``(i) to regulate hydraulic fracturing in 
                        accordance with this subsection; and
                            ``(ii) to ensure that State programs under 
                        section 1422 or 1425 regulate hydraulic 
                        fracturing in accordance with this 
                        subsection.''.
                                 <all>
